Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Government Transparency on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from State Freedom of Information Laws

61 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2024

Dongdi Gu

University of Texas at Dallas

Jiapeng He

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Ying Huang

University of Texas at Dallas

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: September 21, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of government transparency on corporate tax avoidance by using staggered changes in state freedom of information (FOI) laws to measure changes in state government transparency. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that improvements in state FOI laws reduce state income tax avoidance by firms headquartered in the state. The effect is stronger for firms headquartered in counties that lack strong civic norms emphasizing civic responsibility, firms with stronger integrity culture, and firms headquartered in more corrupt states. Our mechanism analysis suggests that the reduction in tax avoidance is primarily due to firms being more willing to pay taxes when they perceive the government as more transparent and trustworthy, which is consistent with the reciprocity view in the tax morale literature. We also find that improvements in state FOI laws increase not only corporate income tax revenues but also sales tax and individual income tax revenues for the state government. Finally, consistent with our finding based on state FOI laws, we find that the 2016 Improvement Act of the federal Freedom of Information Act reduces federal tax avoidance for firms whose tax decisions are more likely to be affected by tax morale.

Keywords: Freedom of Information Laws, Government Transparency, Government Accountability, State Taxes, Tax Avoidance, Tax Morale

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Dongdi and He, Jiapeng and Huang, Ying and Li, Ningzhong, The Effect of Government Transparency on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from State Freedom of Information Laws (September 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4963399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4963399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , C Mcclellan
Corruption and Firm Tax Evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 124 , p. 146 - 163 Posted: 2016
J Alt , D Lassen
Transparency, Political Polarization, and Political Budget Cycles in OECD Countries
American Journal of Political Science , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2006
J Alt , R Lowry
Transparency and Accountability: Empirical Results for US States
Journal of Theoretical Politics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 379 - 406 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,555
RANK
192,137
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies