Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unqualified opinion is not free of corruption: The audit expectation gap in Indonesia

11 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024

Agustinus Salle

Cenderawasih University

Date Written: September 01, 2019

Abstract

Getting the unqualified opinion (UO) by the Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) is the dream of every government entity in Indonesia. The opinion is an important indicator for the quality of financial management, especially related to measures of accountability and transparency. But there appears an expectancy gap as this indicator is challenged by some stakeholder groups, since government entities that got an UO actually were involved in corruption. While, the SAI and other state officials repeatedly emphasised that providing the UO does not mean that the government is in fact free of corruption, this caveat is however regarded as insufficient. This paper studies the expectance gap related to the link between unqualified opinions and corruption.

Keywords: government financial audit, unqualified opinion, corruption, expectation gap

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that they have no known personal or financial relationships with any individuals or organizations that could have influenced the content, findings, or interpretation of this study. There were no external funding sources or support from entities with vested interests in the outcomes of the research.

Ethics Approval

Written informed consent was obtained from the individual(s) involved in this case study for the publication of their anonymized data and information. All identifying information has been removed to maintain confidentiality.

Funder Statement

The authors acknowledge financial support from Cenderawasih University for this study. However, the university had no involvement in the study design, data collection, analysis, interpretation, or in the decision to submit the article for publication. The authors declare no additional personal or financial relationships with other individuals or organizations that could have influenced the study.

Suggested Citation:

Salle, Agustinus, Unqualified opinion is not free of corruption: The audit expectation gap in Indonesia (September 01, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4963425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4963425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Aicpa
Professional Standards 2 Posted: 1993
Alvin A Arens , Randal J Elder , Beasley Mark
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2012
K E Bailey , Joseph H Bylinski , Michael D Shields
Effects of Audit Report Wording Changes on the Perceived Message
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 355 - 370 Posted: 1983
Jean Bédard , Paul Coram , Reza Espahbodi , Theodore J Mock
Does Recent Academic Research Support Changes to Audit Reporting Standards?
Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
380
RANK
880,636
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies