Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Governments Accountability: A Content Analysis of the Financial Audit Reports

UTOPÍA Y PRAXIS LATINOAMERICANA. AÑO: 25, n° EXTRA 1, 2020, pp. 184-195 | DOI: http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3774609

Posted: 31 Oct 2024

Agustinus Salle

Cenderawasih University

Date Written: April 20, 2020

Abstract

This research examines the financial accountability of local governments, based on the audited Regional Government Financial Statements. Data collected from the financial statements focused on the village funds transferred from the Central Government to local governments in Papua Province, Indonesia. The regional authorities function as intermediaries to transfer the funds to villages. For analysis, the research applies a qualitative content analysis, using criteria from the Government Financial Accounting Standards (GFAS). The analysis reveals that financial reports still have many deficiencies; almost all reports do not utilise the GFAS. The study resolves that insufficiencies of reporting indicate accountability. Keywords: the Financial shortfall of accountability, decentralization, Indonesia, village funds.

Keywords: Financial accountability, fiscal decentralization, Indonesia, village funds

Suggested Citation:

Salle, Agustinus, Local Governments Accountability: A Content Analysis of the Financial Audit Reports (April 20, 2020). UTOPÍA Y PRAXIS LATINOAMERICANA. AÑO: 25, n° EXTRA 1, 2020, pp. 184-195 | DOI: http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3774609, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4963407
 Not Available for Download
28 References
Posted: 0446
Source: Details of Village Funds per district/city for the period Posted: 2015
T L Allen
Public accountability and government financial reporting
Models of public budgeting and accounting reform , volume 2 , p. 11 - 36 Posted: 2002
H Basri , A K S Nabiha
Accountability of local government: The case of Aceh Province
Indonesia. Asia Pacific Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
161
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies