Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Investigations of Public Pensions

63 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024 Last revised: 8 Jan 2025

Kangkang Zhang

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: August 24, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, the looming threat of substantial unfunded liabilities and the obligation to meet these financial commitments have become critical issues for numerous state pension plans, prompting concerns about their solvency and management. This study examines the effect on public pension plans of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Utilizing a stacked cohort difference-in-differences design, I observe that state pensions tend to improve investment performance when subjected to SEC investigation. The observed effect is more pronounced for state governments with more conflicts of interest among agencies, suggesting that a reduction in such conflict serves as the channel for the observed effect. The enhancement of pension fund performance stems primarily from a shift toward passive asset allocation, reduced investment biases, and reduced investment costs. It is accompanied by a decrease in the accounting discretion of state pensions and an increase in cash contributions from participating employers and state governments. Collectively, these findings suggest SEC scrutiny significantly affects the functioning of state pension plans. 

Keywords: SEC Investigation, Public Pension, Investment Performance

JEL Classification: K42, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Kangkang, SEC Investigations of Public Pensions (August 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4964809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4964809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A Allen , R C Petacchi
Preparer opposition and strategic implementation of Governmental Accounting Standards: Evidence from public pension accounting reform
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 7 , p. 3759 - 4361 Posted: 2023
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The impact of governmental accounting standards on publicsector pension funding
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 1948 - 1996 Posted: 2024
A Andonov , R M M J Bauer , K J M Cremers
Pension fund asset allocation and liability discount rates
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 2555 - 2595 Posted: 2017
A Andonov , M Bonetti , I Stefanescu
Choosing pension fund investment consultants Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,539
RANK
255,414
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies