Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Foreign Currency Risk and Other Factors that Affect Civil Society Organizations Performance in Georgia

Financial Studies, Volume 27, Issue 4 (http://fs.icfm.ro/Paper.01.FS4.2023.pdf)

Posted: 23 Oct 2024

Teona Kopaleishvili

Caucasus University

Vakhtang Berishvili

Caucasus University

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

Civil society organisations (CSO) play an important role in social value creation. With funds provided by donors, they implement a great variety of projects. The main purpose of the study was to identify the most important factors that directly or indirectly affected organisational performance over the past few years, reducing the spending capabilities of Georgian civil society organisations. A survey involving interviews was conducted with 24 CSOs that were implementing a total of 52 projects with the support of 15 different donors. To assess exchange rate risks that reduce spending capabilities, historic simulation and scenario analysis method was adopted. The results show that exchange rate volatility, inflation, and the COVID-19 pandemic were the most important factors that affected project performance. The effect of inflation was undoubtedly negative, exchange rate fluctuation was mostly negative, while the restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic had some positive implications. Performance and risk factors that influence civil society organisations are poorly studied (in contrast with for-profit companies), and this fact makes the current study especially interesting and significant for CSO management, donor organisations and policymakers.

Keywords: donor-grantee relationships, NGO financial management, COVID-19, international funding, project management

JEL Classification: L31, F31, H81

Suggested Citation:

Kopaleishvili, Teona and Berishvili, Vakhtang, Assessment of Foreign Currency Risk and Other Factors that Affect Civil Society Organizations Performance in Georgia (December 01, 2023). Financial Studies, Volume 27, Issue 4 (http://fs.icfm.ro/Paper.01.FS4.2023.pdf), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4994890
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
171
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies