Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surplus Reduction and Personal Incentives in the Government Sector

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4996053

51 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024

Amanda Beck

Georgia State University

Xi Chen

University of Bristol

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: October 22, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between agency problems and local governments’ accounting discretion. Specifically, we examine whether bureaucrats use accounting discretion opportunistically to garner citizen support for raising property taxes. Our findings reveal that local governments with budget surpluses employ negative accruals to counteract the positive impact of rising real estate prices on their financial statements. This practice is more pronounced in jurisdictions with lower reporting quality, higher tax sensitivity to reported surpluses, and weaker legal restrictions on tax increases. The reduced surplus correlates with future growth in property taxes and non-core expenditures (but not core expenditures). Executive compensation increases while rank-and-file employees’ pay remains stagnant. Financial preparers who produce bespoke financial statements enjoy higher compensation increases from their current employer and a greater likelihood of external promotions. These findings underscore how accounting manipulation can obscure agency issues, distort managerial incentives, and result in real economic costs in the public sector.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Governmental Accounting, Empire Building, Fiscal Policy

Suggested Citation:

Beck, Amanda and Chen, Xi and Hilary, Gilles, Surplus Reduction and Personal Incentives in the Government Sector (October 22, 2024). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4996053, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4996053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4996053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Timothy J Bartik
The Effects of State and Local Taxes on Economic Development: A Review of Recent Research
Economic Development Quarterly , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 1992
A W Beck
Opportunistic financial reporting around municipal bond issues
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 785 - 826 Posted: 2018
D Berkowitz , M Caner , Y Fang
The validity of instruments revisited
Journal of Econometrics , volume 166 , p. 255 - 266 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
741,762
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies