Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Payroll Fraud in Nigeria Public Service: Its Evaluation and Nexus With the Efficiency of the Service

Posted: 2 Jan 2025

Christian Chima

University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, Umuagwo

Samuel Agusimba

Imo State Polytechnic

Josephine Chikaodi

Imo State University - Owerri

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

This paper examined the alleged perversion of public funds through payroll system and its nexus with the efficiency of the service. The study gathered secondary data from the published official records of various government-commissioned verifications on payroll and salary administration in the public service, which were empirically evaluated. To complement this data were also garnered from the responses on the 30-item structured questionnaire administered on many stakeholders across the five (5) Eastern States along the following concerns: adequacy of tools deployed on payroll operation; enforcement agencies, fraud disclosure and reporting; sustainability of regular enquires on wage payment, and possible collaborative employer-employee role in fraud. These data tools and distribution of frequencies on variables powered the descriptive survey and explanatory research design used. The responses were accordingly quantified using the polychotomous variables, the likert ratings, with varying values. The data were analyzed using the Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) statistical tool. The findings validated the inadequacies in the tools used in payroll administration, the poor engagement of enforcement agencies, the inadequacy of the tools for fraud disclosure and reporting, the poor sustainability of efforts on regular enquires on wage payments and the unfortunate collusion by some employees and the management staff in the promotion of payroll fraud. On the basis of these the work recommended multi-dimensional remedial efforts, including the intensified use of forensic techniques in fraud control.

Keywords: Payroll fraud, public service, forensic, ghost worker, salary, wage

Suggested Citation:

Chima, Christian and Agusimba, Samuel and Chikaodi, Josephine, Payroll Fraud in Nigeria Public Service: Its Evaluation and Nexus With the Efficiency of the Service (September 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003542
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies