Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Did We End Up with this Budget and this Us International Tax System? A Brief History of the Proposed Predecessor Tax Reforms to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 3, Pages 143-150

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paul C. Nylen

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the history and implications of US international tax reform in the 21st century, with particular reference to revenue raising, deficits and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2pjs6mj

Keywords: budget law, TCJA, tax policy, tax reform, GILTI, BEAT, interest deduction

Suggested Citation:

Nylen, Paul C., How Did We End Up with this Budget and this Us International Tax System? A Brief History of the Proposed Predecessor Tax Reforms to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 3, Pages 143-150, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2pjs6mj
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies