Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Latin American and Caribbean Tax Policy in the Hands of the European Union? A Three-Country Case Study: The Source Principle Under Attack

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 394-406

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Andrea Laura Riccardi Sacchi

Independent

Abstract

This article aims to understand why and how - and to what extent - the European Union is shaping Latin American and Caribbean national tax systems. It, therefore, examines the effects of EU tax policy on source taxation in Costa Rica, Panama and Uruguay to establish the extent of this influence.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1dba456

Keywords: Inclusive Framework (OECD), BEPS, source principle of taxation, tax policy, EU Code of Conduct on Business Taxation, harmful tax competition, blacklist, foreign source income

Suggested Citation:

Riccardi Sacchi, Andrea Laura, Is Latin American and Caribbean Tax Policy in the Hands of the European Union? A Three-Country Case Study: The Source Principle Under Attack. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 394-406, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1dba456
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies