Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Inquiry into the Use and Reform of the New Zealand Foreign Trust Regime

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 507-524

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Michael Hansby

Independent

Abstract

This article describes how and to what extent New Zealand foreign trusts are used in international tax planning. It highlights the substantive tax policy concerns that remain outstanding despite the recent reform, and evaluates the political backdrop to reform process, concluding that greater transparency in tax policymaking is desirable.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2cd9cg1

Keywords: trust, international tax planning, tax policy, tax haven, tax avoidance, tax evasion, tax morale, tax transparency, case law

Suggested Citation:

Hansby, Michael, An Inquiry into the Use and Reform of the New Zealand Foreign Trust Regime. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 507-524, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2cd9cg1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies