Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An EU Corporate Income Tax Filling the Hole in the EU Budget: An End to Tax Competition and "Tax Abuse"?

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 749-761

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Frans Vanistendael

Independent

Abstract

In his contribution to the 75th anniversary issue of the Bulletin for International Taxation, the author proposes that an EU corporate income tax should be introduced to raise revenue for the EU Budget, end tax competition between the Member States and tax abuse, and increase democracy within the European Union.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2tn28zz

Keywords: EU tax law, corporate income tax, tax competition, tax avoidance, tax evasion, treaty abuse, abuse of law, principal purpose test, ATAD, fundamental freedoms

Suggested Citation:

Vanistendael, Frans, An EU Corporate Income Tax Filling the Hole in the EU Budget: An End to Tax Competition and "Tax Abuse"?. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 749-761, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2tn28zz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
92
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies