Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism (Britacom): Where is it Heading?

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 740-748

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Na Li

Independent

Abstract

This article describes the policy objective, legal basis, structure and action plan of the Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism (BRITACOM) and reviews its performance in 2019 to 2021. The author argues that concluding multilateral conventions should be included on the agenda of the BRITACOM for its development in the future.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xwmsj5

Keywords: tax policy, tax authorities, developing countries, memorandum of understanding, tax certainty, dispute resolution, tax compliance, tax technology, multilateral tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Li, Na, The Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism (Britacom): Where is it Heading?. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 740-748, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2xwmsj5
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Negotiation & Dispute Resolution eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies