Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Canada at the Crossroads of International Tax Reform: Between Harmonization and Tax Competition

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 704-714

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Nathan Boidman

Independent

M.N. Kandev

Independent

Abstract

In this article for the 75th anniversary issue of the Bulletin for International Taxation, the authors provide their thoughts on Canada's response to the proposed reform of international taxation as suggested by the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project and succeeding initiatives.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3htjxgk

Keywords: harmonization of tax, tax competition, international taxation, tax reform, tax policy, BEPS Project (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Boidman, Nathan and Kandev, M.N., Canada at the Crossroads of International Tax Reform: Between Harmonization and Tax Competition. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 704-714, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3htjxgk
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies