Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Nonprofit Tax Exemptions and Deductions "Federal Financial Assistance"? Should They Be?

29 Florida Tax Review (forthcoming 2025)

49 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2024 Last revised: 20 Feb 2025

Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer

Notre Dame Law School

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

Two recent federal court decisions have reignited the debate over whether “Federal financial assistance” as used in four federal anti-discrimination statutes includes the tax benefits enjoyed by most nonprofit organizations. Both courts concluded that it does. While an appellate court reversed one decision, and the other case settled without appellate review, these holdings create significant uncertainty. And this uncertainty affects the more than 1.8 million tax-exempt nonprofits, many if not most of which do not receive federal financial assistance through other channels and so could safely conclude these statutes do not reach them, absent these decisions.

This Article first considers whether the two recent decisions were correct in deciding that federal financial assistance in this context includes nonprofit tax benefits and determines that the weight of authority strongly supports the conclusion that they were not. More specifically, it reviews the relevant statutory language, existing regulatory and other administrative guidance, and court decisions and commentary addressing this issue to reach the conclusion that “Federal financial assistance” as used in Title VI, Title IX, the Rehabilitation Act, and the Age Discrimination Act does not include the exemption from federal income tax enjoyed by most nonprofits and, for charities, the eligibility to receive tax deductible contributions. This Article also considers the contrary arguments asserted by courts and commentators and explains why none of those arguments are persuasive.

This conclusion does not end the matter, however, as those same arguments suggest that Congress should expand the reach of these anti-discrimination statutes to include nonprofits that enjoy federal tax benefits, to the extent Congress can do so within its constitutional authority. While Congress’ spending power does not support such an expansion, its taxing power could do so if Congress chose to make compliance with these statues a condition for receiving those tax benefits. Adding such a condition would not subject affected nonprofits to the procedural and penalty provisions of those statutes, but it would mean an otherwise eligible nonprofit that violated the substantive requirements of these statutes would no longer qualify for those tax benefits and could, if Congress chose, face other tax-related burdens.

But while Congress could exercise its taxing power to condition nonprofit tax benefits on compliance with these anti-discrimination statutes, it should not do so for several reasons. First, the likely harm to the pluralism of the nonprofit sector outweighs the benefits of requiring tax-exempt nonprofits to comply with these statutes. Second, engaging in the discrimination prohibited by these statutes does not undermine the public benefitting nature that federal tax law requires for tax-exempt charities to enjoy their tax benefits given the freedom Congress has provided to charities to define public benefit in this context. Third, the administrative burden on both tax-exempt organizations and the Internal Revenue Service of such a condition would be substantial and, for some smaller tax-exempt organizations, overwhelming.

Keywords: nonprofit, tax, tax exemption, charitable contribution, federal financial assistance, discrimination, Title VI, Title IX, Rehabilitation Act, ADA

JEL Classification: K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Lloyd Hitoshi, Are Nonprofit Tax Exemptions and Deductions "Federal Financial Assistance"? Should They Be? (October 31, 2024). 29 Florida Tax Review (forthcoming 2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5006275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5006275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Id
at *5. Unless otherwise noted, all section references are to the Internal Revenue Code , volume 26
Buettner-Hartsoe V
Baltimore Lutheran High School Ass'n, 967 F.4th , volume 707 Posted: 2024
E H
Valley Christian Academy
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
653
RANK
495,993
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies