Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
United States Greenhouse Gas Reporting Framework for CCS

Proceedings of the 17th Greenhouse Gas Control Technologies Conference (GHGT-17) 20-24 October 2024

22 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2024

Melinda Miller

Government of the United States of America - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

Clark Talkington

Advanced Resources International

Owen Hadden

Advanced Resources International

Nicholas Konovalchik

Advanced Resources International

Date Written: November 5, 2024

Abstract

The United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) establishes an accounting framework for quantifying and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) data and other relevant information from large GHG emission sources, fuel and industrial gas suppliers, and CO2 injection sites in the United States. Covered facilities report annually to the GHGRP, and EPA publishes non-confidential GHGRP data in publicly available databases at the sector and facility level. Certain aspects of the carbon capture and storage (CCS) process are among the sectors covered by the GHGRP. Each sector has regulatory data reporting requirements outlined in different subparts of the reporting rule. Specifically, facilities and/or suppliers that must report data to the GHGRP include suppliers of carbon dioxide, geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide, and injection of carbon dioxide In addition, EPA finalized regulatory amendments in 2024, adding reporting requirements for facilities that use CSA/ANSI ISO Standard 27916:2019, “Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transportation and Geological Storage—Carbon Dioxide Storage Using Enhanced Oil Recovery (CO2-EOR)” to quantify CO2 sequestered through enhanced oil recovery (EOR). In 2024, EPA also finalized new requirements for Direct Air Capture (DAC) facilities to report additional data under as suppliers of CO2 including energy source and consumption information. This paper provides a brief overview of the GHGRP, explains the CCS-specific framework in the GHGRP, outlines the monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) plans required for facilities sequestering CO2, and presents a summary of reported data for the CCS sectors including numbers and types of reporters as well as quantities of CO2 supplied, injected and stored.

Keywords: CCS, MRV, GHGRP, EPA, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Melinda and Talkington, Clark and Hadden, Owen and Konovalchik, Nicholas, United States Greenhouse Gas Reporting Framework for CCS (November 5, 2024). Proceedings of the 17th Greenhouse Gas Control Technologies Conference (GHGT-17) 20-24 October 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5011929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5011929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
H R
Public Law 110-161. The Appropriations Act required U.S. EPA to ''develop and publish rules to require mandatory reporting of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions above appropriate thresholds in all sectors of the economy of the United States Posted: 2024
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2024a. GHGRP and the U.S. Inventory of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks Posted: 2024-07
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2023a. GHGRP Overview Fact Sheet Posted: 2024-07-15
Revisions and Confidentiality Determinations for Data Elements Under the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule
89 Federal Register Posted: 2024-04-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
RANK
653,768
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies