Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Intelligent Audit from a Data Science Perspective

11 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2024

Hongru Lu

Nanjing Audit University

Zhiang Wu

Nanjing Audit University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The modern auditing landscape is confronted with challenges stemming from the proliferation of varied data and the intricacy of audit tasks. In response, auditors are increasingly adopting data intelligence (DI) technologies to enhance procedures and improve audit quality, giving rise to the concept of ``intelligent audit". Nevertheless, the prevailing focus of research on financial statement audits tends to overshadow the importance of broader contexts and the complexity inherent in audit tasks, especially in government auditing. The research to date has primarily examined the impact of advanced technologies on auditing from technical and application perspectives, neglecting the essential steps and critical technological processes needed to address audit challenges. Furthermore, much of this discourse, including conclusions and proposed frameworks, lacks empirical and practical validation. This gap hinders engineers’ understanding of intelligent auditing and impedes the development and implementation of effective intelligent audit systems.This paper conducts a thorough review of intelligent auditing from the perspective of data science. First, we seek to establish a formal definition of ``intelligent audit", a term lacking consensus in academia, and introduce three real-world case studies that highlight the diversity of data and the complexity of audit tasks. Second, through bibliometric analysis, we provide an overview of the yearly progress and literature distribution related to intelligent auditing. Third, we examine the paradigm shift and illustrative frameworks to shed light on the impacts of DI technologies. Moreover, we provide an in-depth summary of key technological applications in intelligent auditing, including data modeling, anomaly detection, and advanced artificial intelligence techniques. The goal of this review paper is to help accountants and auditors in developing a deep understanding of the current research landscape regarding the application of new technologies in auditing. Additionally, this survey aims to attract the interest of computer scientists and artificial intelligence researchers to the auditing field, underscoring its potential as a promising area for application.

Keywords: Data Intelligence, Intelligent Audit, Government Auditing, Anomaly Detection, Artificial Intelligence

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Hongru and Wu, Zhiang, Revisiting Intelligent Audit from a Data Science Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5015185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5015185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
MetaFraud: a metalearning framework for detecting financial fraud
MIS Quarterly , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
J Achiam , S Adler , S Agarwal , L Ahmad , I Akkaya , F L Aleman , D Almeida , J Altenschmidt , S Altman , S Anadkat
GPT-4 technical report Posted: 2023
F A Amani , A M Fadlalla
Data mining applications in accounting: A review of the literature and organizing framework
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 24 , p. 32 - 58 Posted: 2017
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
213,801
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Artificial Intelligence eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies