Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Danish Supreme Court's Decisions on Withholding Tax on Dividends and Interest

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 290-297

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Niels Winther-Sørensen

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the final decisions from January and May 2023 of the Danish Supreme Court in the Danish beneficial ownership cases. The Supreme Court ruled on the consequences of the ECJ preliminary rulings but also took a position on questions of principle on the interpretation of tax treaties and domestic Danish tax law. The Supreme Court ruled that the Danish companies were liable for Danish withholding tax.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2r1808q

Keywords: case law, ECJ case law, beneficial ownership, tax treaty, treaty interpretation, domestic tax law, withholding tax, dividend, interest, abuse of rights, Parent-Subsidiary Directive, Interest and Royalties Directive

Suggested Citation:

Winther-Sørensen, Niels, The Danish Supreme Court's Decisions on Withholding Tax on Dividends and Interest. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 290-297, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2r1808q
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
150
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies