Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Council of State Decides Participation of an Individual on Greek Board of Directors Not Sufficient to Presume Greek Tax Residence

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 556-559

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Evangelos Douvas

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the author discusses the Greek Council of State decision in Case 418/2020, wherein the Court determined that participation in the management of a board based in Greece was not sufficient, by itself, to establish that an individual, who had moved abroad, had retained his tax residence in Greece.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2nza9yn

Keywords: residence, case law, director, OECD Model, centre of vital interests

Suggested Citation:

Douvas, Evangelos, Council of State Decides Participation of an Individual on Greek Board of Directors Not Sufficient to Presume Greek Tax Residence. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 556-559, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2nza9yn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies