Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Groupe Steria or Lexel?

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 447-452

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Femke van der Zeijden

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the author comments on a ruling of the Swedish Council for Advance Tax Rulings in relation to the Lexel (Case C-484/19) decision. In particular, the note commences with a description of the Swedish and EU law background to the case presented to the Council, the Lexel case and the ruling at hand. Subsequently, the author analyses the EU law considerations that would have been relevant had a decision of the minority of the Council been followed. Finally, certain ongoing questions are highlighted.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/25gc0x6

Keywords: advance tax ruling, interest deduction limitation, case law, ECJ case law, fundamental freedoms, justification

Suggested Citation:

Zeijden, Femke van der, Groupe Steria or Lexel?. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 447-452, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/25gc0x6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies