Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informal Information Released by Polish Tax Authorities on the Application and Interpretation of Tax Law: Quasi-Tax Ruling or Irrelevant Piece of Paper?

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 307-310

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Wojciech Morawski

Independent

B. Brzeziński

Independent

Abstract

This note explores the legal significance of information obtained by taxpayers from the tax authorities in the form of brochures, instructions for filling in tax returns, the content of telephone conversations and e-mails. The authors discuss the issue in the context of Polish case law, which seems to indicate a willingness to protect taxpayers acting in reliance on such information.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2wa627c

Keywords: tax authorities, ruling, domestic tax law, case law, taxpayers' rights, legality principle

Suggested Citation:

Morawski, Wojciech and Brzeziński, B., Informal Information Released by Polish Tax Authorities on the Application and Interpretation of Tax Law: Quasi-Tax Ruling or Irrelevant Piece of Paper?. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 307-310, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028899 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2wa627c
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies