Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italy's Cooperative Compliance Regime Broadened in Scope Under 2023 Tax Reform Law

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 500-505

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Luigi Quaratino

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the author outlines recent amendments to the Cooperative Compliance Regime under the 2023 Tax Reform Law. The Cooperative Compliance Regime was first introduced in 2015 for the purpose of encouraging continuous dialogue between large taxpayers and the Italian tax authorities in order to resolve potential tax disputes in advance and obtain tax certainty. To incentivize taxpayers to access the Regime, the Tax Reform Law significantly improves the Cooperative Compliance Regime mainly by broadening the range of taxpayers eligible to access it and introducing further benefits.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3qr9dyb

Keywords: cooperative compliance, tax reform, control, risk

Suggested Citation:

Quaratino, Luigi, Italy's Cooperative Compliance Regime Broadened in Scope Under 2023 Tax Reform Law. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 500-505, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3qr9dyb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
142
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies