Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Survive with Half a Million Advance Tax Rulings: The Polish Experience

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 133-146

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Wojciech Morawski

Independent

Abstract

This article outlines the very extensive system of tax rulings in Poland. The author points out the reasons behind the mass issuance of rulings by the tax authorities, as well as attempts to limit their number. The article shows, in particular, the organizational problems associated with the issuance of numerous rulings. The author emphasizes the high operating costs faced by both the tax authorities and the administrative courts, which control the veracity of the rulings.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/24mp4kh

Keywords: tax system, tax authorities, advance tax ruling, APA, private ruling, GAAR, procedural tax law

Suggested Citation:

Morawski, Wojciech, How to Survive with Half a Million Advance Tax Rulings: The Polish Experience. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 133-146, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/24mp4kh
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
77
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies