Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Welfare Reform Driving Significant Personal Income Tax Amendments

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 552-555

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Laura Ambagtsheer-Pakarinen

Independent

Abstract

Finland is undergoing a large-scale welfare reform, pursuant to which health, social and rescue services are being transferred from the municipalities to well-being services counties. In order to finance the reform, some tax revenue from the municipalities is being transferred to the state. The overall goal is to, nevertheless, keep the tax burden at the same level as before the reform. This article examines the reform and the significant changes triggered by it in respect of Finnish personal income taxation with effect from 1 January 2023.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/8rvqqv

Keywords: individual income tax, tax reform, tax burden, domestic tax law, local tax, tax relief

Suggested Citation:

Ambagtsheer-Pakarinen, Laura, Welfare Reform Driving Significant Personal Income Tax Amendments. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 552-555, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/8rvqqv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies