Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deduction Limitations in Sweden Post-Lexel: The Relevance of the Free Movement of Capital

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 234-246

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Cécile Brokelind

Independent

D. Kleist

Independent

Abstract

In Lexel (Case C-484/19), the Swedish interest deduction limitation rules were found to be in breach of article 49 of the TFEU on the freedom of establishment, as they presumed abusive practices even in respect of arm's length-based transactions. This article puts the case into context and highlights follow-up issues raised before lower Swedish tax courts in the context of loan transactions involving associated companies in third countries. Indeed, recent ECJ case law indicates that transactions between associated companies in the European Union and in third countries are protected under article 63 of the TFEU on the free of movement of capital.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/j7rdg2

Keywords: ECJ case law, interest deduction limitation, fundamental freedoms, third countries (EU), arm's length principle

Suggested Citation:

Brokelind, Cécile and Kleist, D., Interest Deduction Limitations in Sweden Post-Lexel: The Relevance of the Free Movement of Capital. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 234-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/j7rdg2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies