Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar Two: Status Quo, Subject-to-Tax Rule and the Impact on Third-Party Investment in Mnes

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 469-474

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefano Pesiri

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the current status of the OECD's two-pillar reform of the international tax system to address the tax challenges arising from digitalization and globalization of the economy, agreed to in October 2021. The article focusses on the complexities involved in the reform, with particular attention to EU law. Certain fundamental aspects contained in the EU Minimum Taxation Directive (2022/2523) are examined in addressing whether or not Pillar Two is compatible with the European Legal Framework. Finally, the issue of the taxation of minority investments in MNE groups is examined in light of the subject-to-tax rule.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2a0pq9b

Keywords: Pillar 2 (OECD), Minimum Tax Directive, CFC, EU law, MNE, STTR (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Pesiri, Stefano, Pillar Two: Status Quo, Subject-to-Tax Rule and the Impact on Third-Party Investment in Mnes. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 469-474, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2a0pq9b
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
156
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies