Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Progressivity in Developing Countries: Redistributive Reforms to Indirect Taxation

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 152-166

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Sebastian Gazmuri Barker

Independent

Abstract

Developing countries’ tax systems are characterized by a very high reliance on indirect taxation and a very low (if any) progressivity. In this article, the author tries to provide a deeper analysis linking these two characteristics by exploring what actions are available for developing countries to increase their tax progressivity through their indirect taxes. He also analyses the potential distributional gains of three reforms to the VAT in developing countries. Using Chile as a case study, the analysis is based on empirical data on consumption patterns to assess the distributional impact of these reforms, finding that they have a strong redistributive potential to enhance the tax progressivity in developing countries. It also emphasises the importance of following evidenced-based tax reforms and not simply follow the indirect taxation policies of developed countries. The author draws comparisons with the UK VAT to highlight the need to take a different approach to regressivity concerns of indirect taxation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/18epfdb

Keywords: VAT, indirect tax, developing countries, progression, redistribution principle, VAT registration, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Gazmuri Barker, Sebastian, Tax Progressivity in Developing Countries: Redistributive Reforms to Indirect Taxation. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 152-166, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/18epfdb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
248
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies