Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Changes in Treatment of Export Transactions in the Philippines

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 205-209

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Jannica Robles Santos

Independent

Abstract

Recent changes overhauling the Philippines’ Tax Code and the issuance of administrative regulations resulted in confusion on whether the zero VAT rate still applied to sales between businesses registered for VAT in economic zones and whether the Philippines still adhered to the cross-border principle. Tracing the roots of the Philippine VAT system and economic zones, the author discusses the impact of recently enacted legislative amendments to the treatment of export sales of goods and services and transactions in economic zones as well as the applicability of the cross-border doctrine.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/22p93pv

Keywords: VAT, zero rate, export, special economic zone, tax incentive, COVID-19 pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Robles Santos, Jannica, Recent Changes in Treatment of Export Transactions in the Philippines. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 205-209, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/22p93pv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies