Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indirect Transfer Tax: India's Tryst with Retrospective Taxation and Treaty Disputes

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Mukesh Butani

Independent

Shankey Agrawal

Independent

A. Rao

Independent

Abstract

In 2012, the Indian government amended the Indian Tax Law to introduce a tax on indirect transfers. This received immense backlash that was largely focused on a complex issue, i.e. Parliament’s power of retrospective application of tax-laws and its impact on international treaties. This attracted several disputes, domestic and international, which threatened the credibility of India’s investment environment, which led to the withdrawal of the retrospective amendment. The authors assesses the validity of such retrospective amendment in light of constitutional and domestic tax law policy. Further, the authors discuss the prominent disputes that arose in relation to the retrospective application of the indirect transfer tax, including the disputes before international investment arbitration tribunals. Thereafter, the authors highlight the international public policy initiatives as well as the remedial measures adopted by the Indian government.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/5zn8b5

Keywords: dispute resolution, arbitration, investment treaty, retroactivity, constitutional law, domestic tax law, indirect transfer (offshore), case law

Suggested Citation:

Butani, Mukesh and Agrawal, Shankey and Rao, A., Indirect Transfer Tax: India's Tryst with Retrospective Taxation and Treaty Disputes. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/5zn8b5
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies