Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supreme Court Rules on the Use of Comparables Involving Different Functional Profiles

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 371-376

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Xeniya Yeroshenko

Independent

Abstract

In a recent decision of 15 June 2023, the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic upheld the position of the taxpayer in a case dealing with the comparability of transactions involving different functional profiles of the same taxpayer due to a business restructuring arrangement. In the view of the Supreme Court, the tax administration failed to establish what would have been an arm’s length price in a comparable uncontrolled transaction by choosing a single uncontrolled transaction, which, in the view of the taxpayer and the Court, was not comparable to what the actual controlled transaction was.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3x5tfz2

Keywords: transfer pricing, transfer pricing adjustment, comparability analysis, reorganization, arm's length principle, case law, CUP method, CUT method, TNM method

Suggested Citation:

Yeroshenko, Xeniya, Supreme Court Rules on the Use of Comparables Involving Different Functional Profiles. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 371-376, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037341 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3x5tfz2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies