Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Royalties Dutiable? A Tango between Transfer Pricing and Customs Valuation

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 345-352

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

S. Kuijper

Independent

Yi Long

Independent

M.L. Schippers

Independent

B. van den Bongard

Independent

Abstract

This article provides a theoretical framework on the interaction between transfer pricing and customs valuation with a specific focus on the treatment of royalties. In addition, the article provides the transfer pricing and customs analysis of a case study regarding the commonly seen structure of the fixed rate royalty and residual royalty model.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2vfnd2r

Keywords: transfer pricing, customs valuation, royalties

Suggested Citation:

Kuijper, S. and Long, Yi and Schippers, M.L. and Bongard, B. van den, Are Royalties Dutiable? A Tango between Transfer Pricing and Customs Valuation. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 345-352, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2vfnd2r
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
150
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies