Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Public Finance Management: Accounting And Reporting Practice: Evidence from Mizan-Tepi University, Bench Maji, Kaffa and Sheka Zone and Budget Sections)

22 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Idris Ali Yimer

Punjabi University

Date Written: February 28, 2019

Abstract

A sound public financial management is vital for efficient and equitable utilization of scarce national resources. However, public financial management specifically on accounting and reporting practices hindered by several problems that lead budgeted resources to deficiency. The objective of the study was to assess public financial management: accounting and reporting practice; Mizan Tepi University, Bench Maji, Kaffa and Sheka Zones. Descriptive method of data analysis with the help of SPSS version 21 was used. Findings of the study showed that in selected public bodies there is no compliance with directives in preparing report, misma budget with expenditure, lack of collaboration between budget and finance section with integration of IBEX system, misapplication of server and lack of IBEX trained experts. Thus, the public bodies have to refer financial manuals, record budget with respective code, correct amount, checking the approved budget balance, hire qualified IBEX experts and configure multi user IBEX system.

Keywords: Public Body, Integrated Budget Expenditure (IBEX).

Suggested Citation:

Ali Yimer, Idris, Assessment of Public Finance Management: Accounting And Reporting Practice: Evidence from Mizan-Tepi University, Bench Maji, Kaffa and Sheka Zone and Budget Sections) (February 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5038319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5038319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M Abdu
A Critical Analysis of Public Financial Management Reform in Addis Ababa , volume 4 , p. 130 - 142 Posted: 2014
N B Ijeoma , T Oghoghomeh
Adoption of international public sector accounting standards in Nigeria : Expectations , benefits and challenges , volume 3 , p. 21 - 29 Posted: 2014
E Imuezerua
Budget Allocation and Expenditure Patterns of Sedibeng District Municipality in Gauteng Province
South Africa , volume 5 , issue 27 , p. 127 - 136 Posted: 2014
N B Ijeoma
The Impact Of International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS) On Reliability, Credibility And Integrity Of Financial Reporting In State Government Administration In Nigeria , volume 2 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies