Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Establishment of International Institute of Zakat Sciences for Qualifying of Professional Certificate in Zakat Sciences

56 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Abdelrahman Kandw

Independent

Date Written: November 08, 2024

Abstract

Firstly, purpose - this research aims at studying the reality of zakat accounting in universities and high institutes of Islamic countries. For knowing the deficiencies of scientific materials which are teaching to students, the number of hours dedicated to the subject and its impact on practice of Zakat. Three countries were selected for comparison and the results had been concluded that the scientific materials cover more or less 15 % of Figh (jurisprudence) and Zakat accounting.
Secondly, approach- to reach for what extent the syllabus is covering the Zakat sciences, their refection on Zakat practice and the scientific professional qualification gab for Zakat accountants. I selected a case study of Islamic bank to stand on how the Computation of Zakat base is calculated by using the two methods of Zakat measurement. (The method of net zakatable assets and the method of sources of funds).
Then what are the differences in measurement of Zakat base between the three parties (chamber of Zakat, the company and the researcher).
Thirdly, findings- the study concluded the presence of inherited and unavoidable divergences in Zakat due. The main reasons behind these divergences are the lack of scientific and professional qualifications for human elements in bachelor of sciences (B.Sc.) and master of sciences ( M.Sc.) level and the absence of a qualifying institute for human resources after office work (practical application). The study indicated a number of recommendations which concerned the practical aspects of zakat need.
2
Fourthly , recommendations- the most important recommendations for the research is to establish international institute of Zakat sciences to qualify and graduate participants for holding professional certificate similar to Certified Public Accountants (CPA) , Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA) and Certified Management Accountant (CMA) named afterward as CZA (Certified Zakat Accountant).
The proposed syllabus contains four basic subjects and their number of hours are (90) hours for every subject. These subjects are:
1. Advanced financial accounting, including financial reporting.
1. Advanced management accounting.
2. Jurisprudence (Figh) and economies of zakat.
3. Zakat accounting accompanied by applied manual (Kit). This applied manual contains of 30 to 40 practical cases of a number of different companies, financial institutions and other types of zakatable funds.
The research handled the route progress of zakat science institute in Sudan as the first one in the Islamic world.
The research recommended the inevitability of establishing the institute for qualifying specialists in Zakatable work. Then to be as a platform for all practitioners of contemporary zakat issues in Islamic world. Then developing the institute to work with the system of remote teaching using the references approved by the institute. Then the next phase in the future is that the examinations to be held in centers of Islamic countries.
3
Fifthly, research limitations – the research proposed the establishment of zakat institute which has already no coordination and cooperation with high academic education. This, however, reflects the consensus on this matter has not been addressed yet.
Lastly, Value – the research calls for a new prospective of zakat sciences to be educated professionally to solve the problem of zakat computation especially on financial institutions level and companies working in different sector of business. Then links the jurists with more specialized knowledge and the same time links accountants with extra emphasis in related jurisprudential zakat issues.
Beside its religious orientation, it is a pillar of Islam.

Suggested Citation:

Kandw, Abdelrahman, Establishment of International Institute of Zakat Sciences for Qualifying of Professional Certificate in Zakat Sciences (November 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5048217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5048217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
-Under constr , volume 488 Posted: 0957
Prepared by the researcher
Provision of reward after service at amount of sdg 1,041,336.00 has not added to sources of funds of chamber of Zakat computation. It is originally long term debt so it should be added back to sources of funds. b. Provision of finance risks in note (4), known as liability of credit sales with amount of sdg 15 , volume 884
Whaaba Elzhihali
brief in Islamic fight, part one I st print: Dar Alfikir-Damascus-2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies