Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FISCAL ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND COMPETENCIES OF SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES IN SOUTHERN NUEVA VIZCAYA: BASIS FOR EXTENSION SERVICES by

10 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Arcadia Alice Ordoñez

Nueva Vizcaya State University

Date Written: July 11, 2022

Abstract

Government funds should be managed, expended or utilized in accordance with laws, rules, and regulations to ensure efficiency, economy and effectiveness in the operations of government. The responsibility to take care of Government fund is faithfully adhered to rests directly with the chief or head of the government agency concerned. The study conducted used a descriptive approach and utilized a validated survey instrument on Fiscal Administrative Practices and competencies. The cluster random sampling using the proportional allocation was utilized to gather data from 224 population. There were 110 respondents from the municipal local government fiscal employees in Southern Nueva Vizcaya. The statistical procedure used were: the subject, frequency distribution, percentage and mean to describe the subject, Pearson r to determine the significant relationship between the competency and the local fiscal administrative practices of the municipal fiscal employees. The data analysis showed that the respondents fiscal practices were excellent with a mean score of 4.43 and their competency was high with a mean score of 3.82. There was no significant relationship between the respondent's revenue generation and competencies. While revenue allocation and revenue utilization was gleaned to be significantly correlated to competencies. The study will serve as transparency review of the Local Government Unit in Southern Nueva Vizcaya to further improve fiscal administrative practices and for efficient and effective public spending.

Keywords: KEYWORS: Fiscal Administrative Practices, Competencies, Southern Nueva Vizcaya, Transparency

Suggested Citation:

Ordoñez, Arcadia Alice, FISCAL ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND COMPETENCIES OF SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES IN SOUTHERN NUEVA VIZCAYA: BASIS FOR EXTENSION SERVICES by (July 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5052057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5052057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Leonor Briones
Philippine Public Fiscal Administration , volume 1 Posted: 1996
A Brillantes
An Introduction to Public Administration 2 nd Edition
Decentralized Demographic Governance Under the Local Government Code: A Government Perspective Posted: 2003
T Christensen
Public Organization Review Commission on Audit. Government Accounting and Auditing Manual Commission on Audit Posted: 2002
Geraldine Ebreo
Awareness and Effectiveness of Internal Audit Service of Local Government Units in the Province of Nueva Vizcaya: It's Implication to Public Administration
NVSPC Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
292
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies