Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Generalized LLMs Framework to Support Public Health Financing through Probabilistic Predictions and Uncertainty Quantification

66 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025

Daniele Guariso

The Alan Turing Institute

Rilwan Adewoyin

University of Warwick - Department of Computer Science; Independent

Gisela Aguilar

University of Oxford

Omar A Guerrero

The Alan Turing Institute

Alisha Davies

Government of the United Kingdom - Public Health Wales

Date Written: December 18, 2024

Abstract

As a systemic problem, public health cannot be addressed without considering other policy dimensions. Hence, a holistic approach across public policy areas is necessary to incorporate Health-for-All values into decision-making. However, such multisectoral interventions require public budgets that are effectively mapped into public health outcomes and indicators of their wider determinants. This budget-tagging procedure is high-cost, given that it is often done manually by domain experts. In this paper, we propose Categorical Perplexity-based Uncertainty Quantification (CPUQ), a novel, cost-effective Large Language Models (LLMs) framework that can be leveraged by policymakers to build budget-to-indicator and indicator-to-indicator mappings. This model-agnostic method employs categorical style prompts to generate interpretable Bernoulli and categorical distributions for edges in a Text-attributed Graph, which is associated with the descriptions of the budget items and indicators. The prompting strategy proposed provides a novel way to incorporate models' uncertainty within the final outputs, enhancing accuracy and safety, We find that the budget-to-indicator mapping predicted by the framework aligns effectively with expert annotations, while when prompted to infer indicator-to-indicator networks, CPUQ estimates more nuanced relationships compared to alternative LLMs-based methods. Through our work, we hope to provide valuable insights into the strengths and weaknesses of leveraging LLMs to support public health budget planning, with the aim of promoting the implementation of the Health-for-All agenda across diverse governments and institutions.

Keywords: Large Language Models, Public Health Financing, Uncertainty Quantification, Health-for-All, Prompt Engineering, Wider Determinants of Health

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

The authors acknowledge funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC). Grant code: EP/T001569/1. The funding source had no involvement in the development of the research.

Clinical Trial Registration

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Guariso, Daniele and Adewoyin, Rilwan and Aguilar, Gisela and Guerrero, Omar A and Davies, Alisha, A Generalized LLMs Framework to Support Public Health Financing through Probabilistic Predictions and Uncertainty Quantification (December 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5062827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5062827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
Unga
Letter from the President of the General Assembly -Health-related Processes Political Drafts | General Assembly of the United Nations Posted: 2023
T E Collins , S Akselrod , R Atun , S Bennett , O Ogbuoji , M Hanson , G Dubois , A Shakarishvili , I Kalnina , J Requejo , A Mosneaga , A Watabe , D Berlina , L N Allen
Converging global health agendas and universal health coverage: financing whole-of-government action through UHC+
The Lancet Global Health , volume 11 Posted: 1985
M Mazzucato , S Fisseha , J Ghosh
Valuing Health for All: Rethinking and Building a Whole-of-Society Approach Posted: 2022
UHC2030, UHC Action Agenda
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
RANK
812,529
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies