Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Community Social Capital and Financial Reporting Quality in Nonprofits

Subedi. M, Li-Kuehne. M, and Mwaungulu. E. (2025). Community social capital and financial reporting quality in nonprofits. Accounting & Finance. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.13396

55 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 25 May 2025

Meena Subedi

Carroll University

Michelle Li-Kuehne

Whitworth University

Emmanuel Mwaungulu

Palm Beach Atlantic University

Date Written: November 29, 2024

Abstract

Based on the social norms and structural theories of social capital, our study provides evidence that the social capital of a nonprofit organization's headquarters area has a positive and statistically significant impact on its financial reporting quality. This evidence is consistent with the social capital theory view of community social capital, which argues that social capital encourages morally acceptable behavior, provides reputational capital, and has implications for organizations. Additionally, our study finds that community social capital is positively associated with the strength of nonprofits' governance and negatively associated with managerial opportunistic behavior, which in turn mediates the main relationship.

Keywords: Social Capital, Financial Reporting Quality, Nonprofit Organizations, Governance, Social Norms, Groupthink theory, Groupthink bias, Social capital theory

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest related to this study. This research was conducted independently, and no financial, personal, or professional relationships influenced the outcomes or interpretation of the findings.

Ethics Approval

This study does not involve human subjects, and therefore, ethical approval from a human research ethics committee was not required. All data used in the study were collected from publicly available sources or generated in a manner that does not involve direct human interaction or impact.

Funder Statement

This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

JEL Classification: M41, L30, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Subedi, Meena and Li-Kuehne, Michelle and Mwaungulu, Emmanuel, Community Social Capital and Financial Reporting Quality in Nonprofits (November 29, 2024).

Subedi. M, Li-Kuehne. M, and Mwaungulu. E. (2025). Community social capital and financial reporting quality in nonprofits. Accounting & Finance. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.13396

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5069507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
H A Abu Khadra , D Delen
Nonprofit Organization Fraud Reporting: Does Governance Matter?
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 409 - 428 Posted: 2020
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO Narcissism and the Takeover Process: from Private Initiation to Deal Completion
Journal of Financial & Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
J Amernic , R Craig
Accounting as a Facilitator of Extreme Narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
RANK
841,369
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies