Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AI Agents and Automation in Small Non-Profit Organizations' Accounting Functions

21 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025

David Krause

Marquette University

Date Written: January 04, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the potential of AI agents and automation within the accounting functions of small non-profit organizations (NPOs). It explores the benefits of AI, including increased efficiency, reduced errors, and improved decision-making, while also examining the challenges, such as data security, staff training, and ethical considerations. The research analyzes existing literature on AI in accounting, examines the implementation process, reviews available AIpowered accounting software solutions for NPOs, and discusses the critical importance of ethical considerations, including data privacy, algorithmic bias, and the potential for job displacement. The paper concludes by emphasizing the need for a strategic approach to AI adoption, including a focus on scalability, continuous learning, and impact measurement to ensure long-term sustainability and alignment with the NPO's mission.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Accounting, Non-profit Organizations, Automation, Data Privacy, Algorithmic Bias, Ethics, Financial Management

JEL Classification: M40, M31, L31, M42, O30, J24

Suggested Citation:

Krause, David, AI Agents and Automation in Small Non-Profit Organizations' Accounting Functions (January 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5082437 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5082437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Amneh , H Borgi , L Phung , A Muhammad
How artificial intelligence changes the future of the accounting industry
International Journal of Economics and Business Administration , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 478 - 488 Posted: 2020
R N Arora
The beginner's guide to AI for nonprofits Posted: 2024-06-30
P E Arregui , M Bacigalupo , B Federico , C G Marcelino , F Caena , J Castaño Muñoz , C Clara , J H Edwards , E Fernández-Macías , E Gomez Gutierrez , M E Gomez Herrera , A I Dos Santos , P Kampylis , D Klenert , M Lopez Cobo , R Marschinski , A Pesole , A Punie , N A Azman , A Mohamed , A M Jamil
Artificial intelligence in automated bookkeeping: A value-added function for small and medium enterprises
JOIV: International Journal on Informatics Visualization , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 224 - 230 Posted: 2021
J W Barnes
The best nonprofit accounting software for every budget and stage of growth. JRF Accounting Posted: 2024-10-25
Load more
1 Citations
Guillaume Plaisance
Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the Context of Nonprofits and Philanthropy: Suspicion and Hope for Researchers and Organizations
Journal of Philanthropy , volume 30 , issue 2 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
246,297
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies