Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timeline of Developments in Space Exploration and Commercialization

6 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2025

William L. Megginson

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: July 20, 2024

Abstract

This table describes the evolution of rocketry and space exploration and commercialization, emphasizing developments during the modern era. Where appropriate, sources for each item are also presented. Except to the extent that they impact civilian space development, this table does not cover specifically military space developments-such as the deployment of ICBMs in the United States and other countries. An explicit objective is to detail the growing commercialization of space activities, particularly since NASA launched the Commercial Orbital Transportation System (COTS) in 2006. This table will be Appendix 1 in "The Financial Economics of Space" paper Professor Megginson is writing and was prepared for the "Equity and Investment in Space" course he is teaching in the Aerospace and Defense Executive MBA program of the University of Oklahoma's Price College of Business. Year (Month/Day) Development and description Source 1232 AD Rockets used as a weapon first time in Battle of Kai-Fung-fu by Chinese to repel Mongol invaders NASA 1 1814 (Sept 13) Congreve rockets, invented by British colonel William Congreve, used to bombard Fort McHenry in War of 1812. These inspired Francis Scott Key's "rockets' red glare" in the US national anthem.

Suggested Citation:

Megginson, William L., Timeline of Developments in Space Exploration and Commercialization (July 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5086239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5086239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Brian Gutierrez
Why the U.S. Once Set Off a Nuclear Bomb in Space
NASA website Posted: 2021-07-16
Matthew Weinzierl , Angela Acocella
Planetary Resources Inc, Property Rights, and the Regulation of the Space Economy
Planetary Society website Posted: 2017
Spaceline , Website
The GEOINT Playbook
#:~:text=At%2011%3A15%20a.m.%20Pacific,design%20for%20the%20Space%20Shuttle USGS website Posted: 2022
Matthew Weinzierl , Kylie Lucas , Mehak Sarang
SpaceX, Economies of Scale, and A Revolution in Space Access Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
644,694
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies