Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
(In)completing accounting: Financial managers and quality reforms in the Danish health system

41 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025

Dane Pflueger

HEC Paris

Margit Malmmose

Aarhus University - School of Business and Social Sciences

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the way that managers operating in the Danish health system encounter, make sense of, and enact a series of different reforms equipping and encouraging them to attend to and improve the quality of medical care. Our attention focuses on the conditions under which managers are enabled to perceive the incompleteness of the accounting systems and metrics, which shape and are shaped by how the reforms are enacted and what they ultimately mean in practice. On this basis we offer novel insights into the process we refer to as incompleting accounting, which we show involves and relates to managerial actions and intentions, and design characteristics of the accounting systems themselves. Illuminating the relationship between incompleting accounting at the level of practice, and completing quality at the level of policy, also allows us to provide a normative assessment of the different quality improvement regimes. Finally, we contribute to debates about the breaking down of distinctions between medical and managerial forms of knowledge and action, highlighting among other things a new direction of hybridization brought about as an indirect effect of accounting for quality.

Keywords: quality, incompleteness, accounting, healthcare

Suggested Citation:

Pflueger, Dane and Malmmose, Margit, (In)completing accounting: Financial managers and quality reforms in the Danish health system (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5086419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5086419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
The role of professional control in the management of complex organizations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1995
T Ahrens , C S Chapman , H W Bendix
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Hospitalsledelse : organisatorisk faenomen og faglig disciplin , volume 21 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
S Brinkmann
Qualitative interviewing : understanding qualitative research Posted: 2013
C Busco , P Quattrone
Exploring how the balanced scorecard engages and unfolds: Articulating the visual power of accounting inscriptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 1236 - 1262 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
282
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies