Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit CEO Compensation and Gender: A Different Context for the Implied Communality Deficit

46 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2025 Last revised: 24 Sep 2025

Davidson B. Gillette

East Carolina University - Department of Accounting

Scott C. Jackson

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Kyle Smith

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 21, 2025

Abstract

This study experimentally examines how executive gender and relative compensation in the nonprofit sector jointly influence donor perceptions and behavior. Prior research has examined how female leaders may be subject to negative evaluations based on an implied communality deficit. This reflects the stereotypical assumption that achieving success in competitive and male-dominated environments must be a result of the female leader being deficient in communality, or other “feminine” traits. In contrast, we find that results around the implied communality deficit reverse in a nonprofit setting, with highly compensated male leaders being perceived as insufficiently communal and subject to negative evaluations. This result has implications for theory and practice regarding gender expectations and leadership and suggests that situation context matters. Where communality may be expected (e.g., nonprofits), even male CEOs are held to such expectations and subject to the negative evaluations caused by a perceived deficit in communality.

Keywords: CEO gender, Nonprofit organizations, Executive compensation

Ethics Approval

This experiment and any related pilot studies received approval from the relevant institutional review boards.

Funder Statement

This research was developed in part under grants from the U.S. Department of Education through its Centers for International Business Education and Research at the University of Colorado Denver and Brigham Young University.

Suggested Citation:

Gillette, Davidson and Jackson, Scott and Parsons, Linda M. and Smith, Kyle, Nonprofit CEO Compensation and Gender: A Different Context for the Implied Communality Deficit (January 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5106847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5106847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A E Abele
The dynamics of masculine-agentic and feminine-communal traits: findings from a prospective study
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 85 , issue 4 Posted: 2003
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
D Bakan
The Duality of Human Existence: An Essay on Psychology And Religion Posted: 1966
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
677,550
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies