Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legitimacy of the Efficient Public Sector Audit

48 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025

Helen M. Watson

Northumbria University

Karim Sorour

University of Northumbria at Newcastle

Philip J. Shrives

Northumbria University

Abstract

A perception of auditors as legitimate is key to their ability to fulfil their role in enhancing confidence in financial statements. This paper explores a major change to the provision of public sector audit in England, to identify how policy change can impact both audit practice and auditors’ legitimacy. Through interviews with practitioners, we identify significant changes in audit practice following its move from the public sector to the private sector: in the pursuit of efficiency, there is a reduction in both effort and expertise applied to audits. Analysing the changes through a lens of legitimacy, we find that auditors’ pragmatic legitimacy is strengthened by the change, as audit clients benefit from reductions in fees and auditors make an effort to manage appearances. Auditors’ moral legitimacy is challenged from the reduction in audit procedures, but this challenge is mitigated by an increase in standardisation and control. Moreover, the most durable type of legitimacy, cognitive legitimacy, remains largely unaffected. Our conclusion is that significant changes to audit policy and practice may have surprisingly little impact on auditors’ legitimacy. Policy makers should therefore be aware that policies leading to more ‘efficient’ audits can result in changes that could impair its effectiveness as an accountability mechanism. With legitimacy intact, the audit continues to provide confidence to users, but this confidence may be less well-founded.

Keywords: Audit, Public sector, Efficiency, Legitimacy, Commercialisation, Audit Commission

Suggested Citation:

Watson, Helen M. and Sorour, Karim and Shrives, Philip J., The Legitimacy of the Efficient Public Sector Audit. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5127066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5127066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
K Al-Htaybat , L V Alberti-Alhtaybat
Big Data and corporate reporting: impacts and paradoxes
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 850 - 873 Posted: 2017
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
In the name of the client: The service ethic in two professional services firms
Human Relations , volume 53 , issue 9 , p. 1151 - 1174 Posted: 2000
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational timereckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
P Andon , C Free , P Sivabalan
The legitimacy of new assurance providers: Making the cap fit
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 96 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
718,946
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies