Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Federal Agency Accounting Quality in Federal Budget Allocation

53 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Jiapeng He

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: February 08, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the role of the accounting quality of U.S. federal agencies, measured with audit opinions, in federal budget allocations to agencies. We find that, when an agency receives a modified audit opinion, the president proposes and Congress enacts a lower budget for the agency, and the budgetary disagreement between them increases. These effects strengthen when the president and Congress have stronger incentives to demonstrate spending accountability to taxpayers. To enhance identification, we exploit the enactment of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Audit Requirement Target Act, which required DHS to end its longstanding modified audit opinions. Following the act’s implementation, the president proposed and Congress enacted higher budgets for the DHS, and their budgetary disagreement over the DHS diminished. These findings suggest that high-quality federal agency accounting influences budgetary decisions by reducing agencies’ information asymmetry with politicians (the president and Congress) and taxpayers, facilitating the evaluation of agencies’ spending accountability.

Keywords: Federal Agency Accounting, Government Transparency, Accounting Quality, Audit Opinion, Federal Budget, Political Incentives, Government Accounting

Suggested Citation:

He, Jiapeng and Li, Ningzhong, The Role of Federal Agency Accounting Quality in Federal Budget Allocation (February 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5128766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5128766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Abdel-Meguid , G Fernando , R Schneible , S Suh
Differential Interpretations and Earnings Quality. Accounting Horizons , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 59 - 73 Posted: 2019
B Akins
Financial Reporting Quality and Uncertainty about Credit Risk among Ratings Agencies , volume 93 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
P André , L Hass , F Kalogirou
Does Accounting Mitigate Agency Conflicts within Corporate Groups? Evidence from UK Subsidiaries Posted: 2019
P Andreas
Redrawing the Line: Borders and Security in the Twenty-First Century
International Security , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 78 - 111 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
461,853
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies