Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Talking Across Purposes [Sic] in Social Investing: Standardising Boundary Objects in Times of Crisis

58 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2025

Julia Morley

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 11, 2025

Abstract

Boundary objects are ambiguous terms that are useful in enabling parties with different incentives, belief systems, or cultural commitments to collaborate. However, the misunderstandings that arise due to this ambiguity will eventually prompt the initiation of a process of standardisation intended to make the meanings of terms more precise to all parties, thereby enabling collaboration to continue. Existing theories of standardisation of boundary objects identify how meanings of terms are renegotiated during standardisation but do not refer to the effect of background conditions-stable or unstable-on this process. This study uses interview and documentary evidence to examine the standardisation of boundary objects between 2010 and 2023 in the UK market for social investment and identifies how this differed between the periods before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings suggest that the process of standardisation of boundary objects is affected by the context in which it takes place, in particular, whether it occurs during periods of stability or during periods of instability. .

Keywords: standardisation, social investment, boundary object, regulation, social impact, social enterprise

Ethics Approval

Compliant with LSE ethics requirements.

Funder Statement

The Marshall Institute at the LSE partially funded this research.

Suggested Citation:

Morley, Julia Eva, Talking Across Purposes [Sic] in Social Investing: Standardising Boundary Objects in Times of Crisis (February 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5133260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5133260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
Access
Understanding social investment [WWW Document]. Good Finance Posted: 2016
R J Adams , P Smart , A S Huff
Shades of Grey: Guidelines for Working with the Grey Literature in Systematic Reviews for Management and Organizational Studies
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 19 , p. 432 - 454 Posted: 2017
S Alamad , N N Hidayah , A Lowe
A shared boundary object: Financial innovation and engineering in Islamic financial institutions
The British Accounting Review , volume 53 Posted: 2021
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Constructing mystery: Empirical matters in theory development
AMR , volume 32 , p. 1265 - 1281 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Investment & Social Responsibility eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies