Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Financial Strategy for Nonprofits

28 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2025 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Elli Malki

Financial-Tip; Rothberg International School of the HU - MA in Nonprofit Management and Leadership; Hebrew University - M.A. in Management of Nonprofit and Community Organizations

Date Written: February 16, 2025

Abstract

Nonprofits operate in a complex environment in which they sometimes have to achieve two conflicting goals. The natural tendency of a nonprofit's management is to maximize the organization's social goals, by using its resources fully. However, every nonprofit needs financial stability, and this goal requires to limit the expenses in order to create reserves. This article presents guidelines for planning toward financial stability, using real life examples from three nonprofits. The article presents the common measures of financial stability and shows how we can project their values for the relevant planning period. Using these projected measures of financial stability, the article presents a methodology to determine the necessary budgetary planning both for the next budget and for the long-run. We also demonstrate how the financial stability measures can be used to manage the risk that emanates from the significant uncertainty regarding income in the nonprofits' sector.

Keywords: nonprofits, financial management, budgetary planning

Suggested Citation:

Malki, Elli, Developing a Financial Strategy for Nonprofits (February 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5140169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5140169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
E Malki
A servant of two masters: The dual role of the budget in nonprofits
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 7 Posted: 2014-01-29
E Malki
A simple model for cash flow management in nonprofits Posted: 2016-01-29
E Malki , H Schmid , Y Sabah
Financial management of welfare organizations
Leadership and Management in Social Services in Israel Theory , p. 363 - 395 Posted: 2025
P Rosenstiel
Maintaining nonprofit operating reserves: An organizational imperative for nonprofit stability
The Nonprofit Operating Reserves Initiative Workgroup Posted: 2008-01-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
RANK
889,053
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies