Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A 'Fair' Tax System? Exploring the Disconnect Between Tax Policy and Gender Equality

21 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025

Adeola Temitope Aina

UNICAF & Unicaf University

Date Written: August 13, 2024

Abstract

This study explores Nigerian tax policies and gender equality, revealing the disconnection between reality and perception. In spite of the tax system's failure to address gender-specific issues, fiscal authorities believe it treats men and women fairly based on the principle of equity. However, women bear the brunt of indirect taxes, own less property, and dominate low-income jobs. The study's findings suggest that tax authorities need to consider the tax system's gender biases, highlighting the need for in-depth appraisal and policy reforms to address these inequalities. The research underscores the importance of gender-sensitive taxation in promoting equality and empowerment for Nigerian women.

Keywords: fiscal equity, gender-sensitive tax

Suggested Citation:

Aina, Adeola Temitope, A 'Fair' Tax System? Exploring the Disconnect Between Tax Policy and Gender Equality (August 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5151649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5151649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L Abramovsky , I N Selwaness
Fiscal policy and gender income inequality: The role of taxes and social spending Posted: 2023
A O Adeniyi , C U Akpuokwe , S S Bakare , N E Eneh
Gender equality in the workplace: A comparative review of USA and African Practices
International Journal of Management & Entrepreneurship Research , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 526 - 539 Posted: 2024
O Adewusi , V O Okoruwa , K Salman , O Alawode , O Adewusi
Gender Differentials for Participation in Producer Organization Among Smallholder Farmers: Evidence from Nigeria
International Conference on Gender Research , volume 7 , p. 10 - 18 Posted: 2024-04
I Akpan , M J Cascant-Sempere
Do tax policies discriminate against female traders? A gender framework to study informal marketplaces in Nigeria , volume 14 , p. 287 - 306 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
209
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Gender & Global Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies