Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Leadership-Member Exchange Relationships in the Implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards by Greek Public Hospitals

EuroMed Journal of Business, volume 18, issue 1, 2022[10.1108/EMJB-04-2021-0064]

17 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2025

Konstantia Dalla

University of Nicosia

Petros Lois

University of Nicosia

Georgios Makrygiannakis

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 22, 2021

Abstract

Purpose This paper aims to examine the quality of the relations within upper-level management in Greek public hospitals (GPHs), as well as to specify the extent to which these facilitate or hinder the forthcoming International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) adoption and implementation. Design/methodology/approach A survey was conducted on a sample of 143 upper-management professionals drawn from across the 125 GPHs. A multivariate structural equation model is used to investigate the degree of interdependence of the level of convenience of implementation under the view of the leader-member exchange (LMX) scale. Findings The findings suggest that the established leader-member relations in the GPHs facilitate reforms. However, these relationships are of little benefit to IPSAS adoption and implementation, mainly due to the low degrees of competence and commitment to IPSAS. The passive adoption of IPSAS is the most likely outcome. Originality/value The study recontextualizes the LMX model to public sector research. The findings have value to hospital leadership and to policy makers, as well as to researchers studying the difficulties of IPSAS adoption and implementation.

Keywords: Public Hospitals, IPSAS, leader-member exchange, LMX, IPSAS implementation, IPSAS adoption

Suggested Citation:

Dalla, Konstantia and Lois, Petros and Makrygiannakis, Georgios, The Role of Leadership-Member Exchange Relationships in the Implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards by Greek Public Hospitals (December 22, 2021). EuroMed Journal of Business, volume 18, issue 1, 2022[10.1108/EMJB-04-2021-0064], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5171019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Acca
IPSAS implementation: current status & challenges
Professional insight report Posted: 2017
S Anand , P R Vidyarthi , H S Park
LMX differentiation: Understanding relational leadership at individual and group levels , p. 263 - 291 Posted: 2016
Apa
Compliance Posted: 2007
M Audenaert , A Decramer , B George , B Verschuere , T Van Waeyenberg
When employee performance management affects individual innovation in public organizations: the role of consistency and LMX
The International Journal of Human Resource Management , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies