Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Parties, Financial Reporting Quality and Donations

63 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2025

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Erica E. Harris

Florida International University (FIU)

Paul A. Wong

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: January 27, 2025

Abstract

In 2008 the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) added several schedules to Form 990 including Schedule R, related party transactions. Utilizing Schedule R, we investigate and descriptively document the existence of related parties and the types of transactions engaged in with those related parties. Then to provide evidence of the usefulness of these disclosures, we tie into the literature on financial reporting quality. Prior research into financial reporting quality shows that donors discount program ratios when a nonprofit organization reports zero fundraising expense, implying they find reporting zero fundraising expense to be a proxy for poor financial reporting quality. A plausible reason for organizations reporting zero fundraising expenses is a related party conducts fundraising on the organization's behalf. Consistent with this interpretation, we find that when nonprofits disclose fundraising services are provided by related entity, they are more likely to report zero fundraising expenses. We also find that disclosure of related party fundraising mitigates donor discounting of the program ratio when zero fundraising expenses are reported. However, we only find this mitigation occurs in nonprofits with sophisticated donors. In sum we find evidence consistent with donors, in particular sophisticated donors, using disclosures provided in Form 990 to supplement the amounts recognized. Our findings demonstrate the importance of, and are consistent with the use of, these related party disclosures. On a broader level, these findings provide insight into how thoroughly donors are willing to review Form 990 to get information relevant to their donation decision.

Keywords: nonprofit organizations, financial reporting quality, disclosure versus recognition, related party transactions, fundraising

JEL Classification: L30, L31, L38, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Harris, Erica E. and Wong, Paul A., Related Parties, Financial Reporting Quality and Donations (January 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5173376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5173376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Allen , L Corradino , B P Mcallister
Low quality IRS Form 990 efficiency information of financially supported nonprofits Posted: 2021
J Andreoni , A A Payne
Do government grants to private charities crowd out giving or fund-raising?
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 792 - 812 Posted: 2003
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 2014
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Value-relevance of banks' fair value disclosures under SFAS No. 107
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 513 - 537 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
649,230
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies