Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income smoothingen cooperativas de crédito brasileñas: los efectos del incumplimiento (Income Smoothing in Brazilian Credit Unions: The Effects of Default)

https://doi.org/10.21680/2176-9036.2024v16n1ID34808

22 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Jonatas Sallaberry

UFSC - PPGC

Lauren Venturini

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS)

Arthur Frederico Lerner

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Leonardo Flach

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Date Written: January 02, 2024

Abstract

English Abstract 
Purpose: The  objective  of  the  study  is  to  analyze  whether  credit  unions  manage  their accounting  results,  in  order  to  smooth  them  through  provision  for  bad  debts  (income smoothing), from a default perspective. Methodology: The  sample  reaches  938  unique  cooperatives  between  the  period  from December 2010 to December 2018, with data from the Central Bank of Brazil, tested using the multiple regression statistical technique, in quarterly panels. Results: The variation in the stock of credit operations and the adjusted net income were not statistically significant in the model, however it was not possible to accept the hypothesis that credit unions use the allowance for loan losses (PPC) as a mechanism for managing results. The interest rate implicit in the result of income from credit operations was significant, and therefore related  to  the PPC variation,  while  the  condition  of  free  admission  did  not  show  statistical significance. The variation in default was significant in the model, with a negative coefficient, implying consistency with the earnings management hypothesis, since in a scenario of higher default (risk) the relationship is negative and, therefore, PPClevels are lower, avoiding potential negative results. Contributions of the Study: The results indicate the absence of earnings management by PPC in the sample and period, contributing to the discussion of the relationships between earnings management  variables.  This  enables  credit  unions  to  reflect  on  their  internal  corporate governance structure. In addition, the evidence contributes to the progress of the literature on earnings manipulation in credit unions, for which there are few studies available and play an important role in the Brazilian market, ensuring funding flows to economic sectors not served by traditional banking institutions.

Note: Downloadable document is in Portuguese.

Keywords: Devengo, Gestión de Resultados, Provisión, Mora, Bancos, Cooperativa

JEL Classification: M14, G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Sallaberry, Jonatas and Venturini, Lauren and Lerner, Arthur Frederico and Flach, Leonardo, Income smoothingen cooperativas de crédito brasileñas: los efectos del incumplimiento (Income Smoothing in Brazilian Credit Unions: The Effects of Default) (January 02, 2024). https://doi.org/10.21680/2176-9036.2024v16n1ID34808, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5173085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5173085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
B Baik , K A Gunny , B Jung , D Park
Income smoothing through R&D management and earnings informativeness
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 49 Posted: 2022
Ffi s%2Fcosif%2Fbalancetes.asp Banco Central do Brasil [BACEN]. (2023b, 06 de junho)
Balancetes e Balanços Patrimoniais Posted: 2019
SGS -Sistema Gerenciador de Séries Temporais -v2.1: Módulo público: Resultado da consulta de valores Posted: 2023-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
187
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies