Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reengineering Public Trust Entities Governance: Toward a More Reliable Public Accountability

978-629-7636-08-5

21 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Mustafa Mohd Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Date Written: January 01, 2024

Abstract

This chapter aims to analyse on current governance issues in the existing governance practice and to propose on the new direction on governance practices for PTEs in Malaysia. Data collection on current governance issues in PTEs were retrieved from a comprehensive library research considering various related online and offline resources. Meanwhile, the reporting of the findings is performed by using single-case study approach. The findings reveal that most of current governance issues in PTEs are due from the government intervention. Such intervention without considering public interest will result to low or weak performance by PTEs. For that, a full overhaul on governance structure and practices can be suggested for PTEs to ensure transparency and good governance practices. The findings suggest that for government and policy makers, they can develop a new practice to reduce bureaucracies and political intervention and at the same time involve public in the decision-making process made by PTEs to enhance governance practices and indirectly to answer public accountability. This chapter is one of the few studies to examine and discuss in detail on the existing governance issues in PTEs which are mainly caused by the government interference.

Keywords: Public Trust Entities, Governance, Public Accountability

Suggested Citation:

Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Mohd Hanefah, Mustafa, Reengineering Public Trust Entities Governance: Toward a More Reliable Public Accountability (January 01, 2024). 978-629-7636-08-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies