Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Rewards for Health Care Program Outcomes and Why They Can and Do Lead to Undesired Results Working Paper 3 in the Series: The Perils of Pay for Performance in Public Service Industries

Northwestern University Institute for Policy Research Working Papers

28 Pages Posted: 2 May 2025

Burton A. Weisbrod

Northwestern University - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

The operations of heath care programs and organizations today rely heavily on the measurement of performance and outcomes. This includes a variety of stakeholders -- private firms such as pharmaceutical manufacturers, government health-care providers and insurers including Veterans Administration (VA) hospitals, and private hospices that depend on the Medicare payment system. In varying ways, all view their expenditures and revenues as being tied to systems of incentives, rewards, and penalties that are linked to performance and outcome measures. Not surprisingly, that can and does trigger stakeholder responses to maximize specific metrics and their associated financial rewards. The result is unintended and often unforeseen distortions in behavior that can lead to undesired outcomes. This paper examines the history of US public policy regarding federal health care programs and payments, and through a series of case studies it shows how and why strong financial rewards tied to simplistic health care performance measures lead to these results. It delves into the economic concept of how and why measurement itself leads to changes in behaviors, and the rationale behind behaviors of ”gaming” health care performance measures systems to enable the appearance of better outcomes. Finally, it points the way to more sophisticated measurement of health care performance with use of “weaker” rather than “stronger” financial rewards as a way to better achieve desired results.

Keywords: health care, incentives, public policy

Suggested Citation:

Weisbrod, Burton A., Financial Rewards for Health Care Program Outcomes and Why They Can and Do Lead to Undesired Results Working Paper 3 in the Series: The Perils of Pay for Performance in Public Service Industries (March 05, 2025). Northwestern University Institute for Policy Research Working Papers, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5199572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5199572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Goodman Folland , Stano
The Economics of Health and Health Care, p. 298 40 Whoriskey and Keating , Hospice Firms Draining Billions from Medicare
Park-Lee Decker , ; Huskamp
Comparison of Home Health and Hospice Care Agencies
Huskamp Stevenson
Hospice Payment Reforms Are A Modest Step
Burns Carney , Brobst
For background on the DRG-based pricing system see , p. 206 - 209 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies