Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Nonprofits Benefit from Being Audited by Issuer Audit Partners?

50 Pages Posted: 5 May 2025 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

William Cather

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting

Stefanie L. Tate

University of Massachusetts at Lowell

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the benefits for nonprofits of being audited by partners who also audit public companies (issuer partners). After gathering insights into nonprofit auditor selection and the role of public company experience on nonprofits and audit partners through interviews with ten nonprofit executives and ten issuer partners, we develop and test hypotheses related to internal control quality and operational efficiency. Although nonprofit directors indicate a preference for partners with nonprofit industry expertise, nonprofits audited by issuer partners have stronger internal controls and more efficient operations than nonprofits with non-issuer partners, suggesting issuer partners act as information intermediaries between for-profit and nonprofit organizations. This positive impact is more pronounced with partners having extensive public company experience. These benefits come with the cost of longer audit report lags, but not higher external accounting and audit fees. The results are robust to entropy balancing, audit partner changes, and client fixed effect model specifications. 

Keywords: audit partners, nonprofits, information intermediaries, PCAOB audits, operating efficiency, internal controls

Suggested Citation:

Cather, William and Tate, Stefanie L. and Boland, Colleen M. and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Do Nonprofits Benefit from Being Audited by Issuer Audit Partners? (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5202416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5202416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 26 - A42 Posted: 2014
2016. 2016 report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
747,544
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies