Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introducing IPSAS-based standards to Greek public hospitals: The influence of organisational culture

37 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Georgios Makrygiannakis

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens - Department of Economics

Konstantia Dalla

University of Nicosia

Petros Lois

University of Nicosia

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

Purpose

The paper explores the influence of organisational culture and the institutional logics in the healthcare hierarchy to the forthcoming implementation of an accounting framework based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) in Greek Public Hospitals (GPHs).

Design/methodology/approach

Following a content analysis on interview data, we use old institutional economics and institutional logics theory to interpret the findings.

Findings

Differing administrative logics in the Ministry of Health and the hospitals are to influence the reform. The results show that the organisational culture is not only considered as the main obstacle, but that cultural change is suggested as a condition for the utilisation of the new standards. The paradox is that the capabilities for interventions in the elements affecting culture are mainly placed in higher levels of hierarchy, yet active agency towards cultural change is expected by the management within GPHs. Therefore, the passive adoption of the IPSAS-based standards that will result in ceremonial change is the most likely outcome.

Originality

The paper illustrates that organisational culture can be an obstacle to reforms, even if the underlying logics of change are accepted. Originalities include the analytical distinction between purposeful and passive organisational compliance, as well as on two antecedents of the latter: withdrawal and discreet resistance to change. Our data indicate that accounting reforms may need to follow procedures dominated by existing logics to enhance the possibilities of purposeful compliance.

Keywords: Public sector, IPSAS, Greece, Institutional logics, Old Institutional Economics, National Health System

Suggested Citation:

Makrygiannakis, Georgios and Dalla, Konstantia and Lois, Petros, Introducing IPSAS-based standards to Greek public hospitals: The influence of organisational culture (March 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5207546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M E Abdulkarim , M I Umlai , L F Al-Saudi
Exploring the role of innovation in the level of readiness to adopt IPSAS
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 469 - 495 Posted: 2020
A Amjad , M Rehman
Resistance to change in public organization: Reasons and how to overcome it
European Journal of Business Science and Technology , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 68 Posted: 2018
T Antipova , A Bourmistrov
Is Russian public sector accounting in the process of modernization? An analysis of accounting reforms in Russia
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 478 Posted: 2013
A C B Aquino , De , R A Batley
Pathways to hybridization: Assimilation and accommodation of public financial reforms in Brazil
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 98 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
134
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies