Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues of Identity and Emotions in the Hybridization of NHS Hospitals: The Role of Activity-Based Costing as a Strategy

Posted: 9 Jun 2025

Maria Major

ISCTE Business School - IUL; BRU-IUL (ISCTE)

Stewart R. Clegg

University of Technology, Sydney - School of Management; Nova School of Business and Economics

Ana Conceição

ISCTE Business School - IUL; BRU-IUL (ISCTE)

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

FORTHCOMING IN FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY & MANAGEMENT
Public hospitals are becoming increasingly hybrid in their institutional logics in response to changing strategies. We conducted a longitudinal, in-depth case study involving five public hospitals, the Portuguese Ministry of Health, and its agencies to examine the role of activity-based costing (ABC) in the hybridization of the sector. Theoretically, we drew on Thornton et al.'s metatheoretical framework, as well as literature on identity and emotions, to inform the study. In doing so, we recognise that constructing a new hybrid institutional logic within a field is a complex endeavour that spans multiple levels of analysis and that actors at the intra-organisational level play a central role in shaping institutional processes. Our findings highlight the role of clinicians' emotions and identity change in the construction of a new hybrid logic at the micro level. We found that conflicts of identity and negative emotions triggered by the implementation of ABCsuch as distrust, fear, and anxiety-hindered the development of hybridization at higher institutional levels. We conclude that only through positive emotional processes can a new hybrid logic gradually develop at the micro level and accrete at the field level.

Keywords: Activity-based Costing in Health Care, Emotions, Hybridization, Hybridity, Identity, Institutional Logics

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

MAJOR, MARIA and Clegg, Stewart R. and Conceição, Ana, Issues of Identity and Emotions in the Hybridization of NHS Hospitals: The Role of Activity-Based Costing as a Strategy (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207844
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies