Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Data-Driven Public Sector Audit: from the Number to a Digital Age

14 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Renan Sousa

Brazilian Federal Court of Accounts

Aroldo Cedraz

Brazilian Federal Court of Accounts

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

The audit work of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) in the public sector is pivotal for democracy, fostering transparency, accountability, and good governance. This literature review explores the evolution of public sector auditing, from its mathematical foundations to modern technological advancements. It highlights the need for a new audit paradigm centered on data, amidst the pervasive digital transformation and the rise of artificial intelligence. Our findings underscore a lack of research on integrating emerging technologies into public sector auditing and emphasize the challenges in adopting a data-driven approach. This study expands existing literature by addressing these issues and proposing future research directions.

Keywords: public sector audit, mathematics, artificial intelligence, big data, blockchain, data analytics, digital transformation

Suggested Citation:

Sousa, Renan and Cedraz, Aroldo, Towards a Data-Driven Public Sector Audit: from the Number to a Digital Age (April 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5209815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5209815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
RANK
923,699
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies