Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could Do Better: Grading the Fiscal Accountability of Canada’s Municipalities, 2024

C.D. Howe Institute 681

39 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2025

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Nicholas Dahir

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

The budgets municipal governments present around the beginning of their fiscal years and the audited financial statements they publish after fiscal year-end are crucial for decision-making and accountability. A review of the budgets and audited financial statements of 32 major Canadian municipalities reveals a troublingly mixed picture.
The grades in our annual fiscal accountability report card for 2024 ranged from A to F. Standing out for clarity, completeness and promptness were Ottawa, Quebec City, Vancouver and Richmond – the only municipality in our survey with a budget following public sector accounting standards (PSAS). At the bottom were Gatineau, Hamilton, Regina and Windsor. Their Fs reflect multiple problems with transparency, reliability and timeliness.
Notwithstanding instances of late or missing information, most municipalities’ financial statements earned high scores for presentation and conformity with PSAS. But many municipal budgets provided no PSAS-consistent numbers. Most presented fragmented information, with separate presentations of operating and capital outlays, and of tax- and rate-supported activities. Too many budgets were late, with councillors approving operating and capital budgets after the start of the fiscal year.
Confusing and late financial documents discourage engagement and informed input. Timelier presentations and budgets that match financial statements, using accrual accounting for capital investments and capturing the full scope of municipal activities and claim on citizens’ resources, would raise the fiscal accountability of Canada’s municipalities to a level more commensurate with their importance in Canadians’ lives.

Keywords: Public Governance and Accountability, Fiscal and Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H30

Suggested Citation:

Robson, William B. P. and Dahir, Nicholas, Could Do Better: Grading the Fiscal Accountability of Canada’s Municipalities, 2024 (April 15, 2025). C.D. Howe Institute 681, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5218522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5218522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
City Of Brampton
Budget. December. City of Toronto Posted: 2021-02
Benjamin Dachis
Gimme Shelter: How High Municipal Housing Charges and Taxes Decrease Housing Supply
Commentary , volume 584 Posted: 2020-11
Benjamin Dachis , B P William , Robson
Holding Canada's Cities to Account: An Assessment of Municipal Fiscal Management
OECD Best Practices for Budget Transparency , volume 145 Posted: 2002
Public Sector Accounting Board. 2022. The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting in the Public Sector Posted: 2023-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies