Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Natural Capital Accounting (NCA)

9 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 13 May 2025

Esmail Tavakolnia

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper critically examines Natural Capital Accounting (NCA) as a policy and management tool designed to integrate environmental considerations into financial decision-making. While NCA aims to promote sustainability by assigning economic value to nature's goods and services, it faces criticism for potentially commodifying ecosystems and reinforcing market-driven exploitation. The paper analyzes economic valuation of environment and NCA as a wicked problem, shaped by conflicting stakeholder interests, governance challenges, and perverse incentives across the state, market, and civil society. It argues for a more ethical, inclusive, and interdisciplinary approach that respects both the intrinsic and instrumental value of nature, aiming to reform current valuation frameworks to better support long-term environmental sustainability.

Keywords: Natural Capital Accounting, Environmental Governance, Wicked Problems

Suggested Citation:

Tavakolnia, Esmail, Natural Capital Accounting (NCA) (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5219788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5219788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Alford , B W Head
Wicked and less wicked problems: a typology and a contingency framework
Policy and society , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 397 - 413 Posted: 2017
T Brandsen , P M Karré , R A List , H K Anheier , S Toepler
Hybridization and Hybridity
International Encyclopedia of Civil Society Posted: 2021
J Caviglia-Harris , D Chambers , J Kahn
Taking the "U" out of Kuznets: A comprehensive analysis of the EKC and environmental degradation
Ecological Economics , volume 68 , p. 1149 - 1159 Posted: 2009
M Christie , I Fazey , R Cooper , T Hyde , J O Kenter
An evaluation of monetary and non-monetary techniques for assessing the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem services to people in countries with developing economies
Ecological Economics , volume 83 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
235
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies