Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selection Method, Partisanship, and Performance of Government Oversight Function

40 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2025

Lang Kate Yang

George Washington University - Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

A rich literature examines the selection method of public organization leaders and its effects on organizational outcomes. Situated in a principal-agent framework, the literature presents a "responsiveness-politician, expertise-bureaucrat" dichotomy: elected officials are better at publicly salient issues because they act to maximize their reelection probability, while appointed bureaucrats are stronger with technical matters as they make decisions to gain professional recognition. This study expands the literature by drawing from theories of nested principal-agent relationships and political control of the bureaucracy. We argue that regardless of the selection method, a public official may answer to multiple principals simultaneously. The principal exerting the most control often is the one with direct or indirect authority over the selection process, but its interest may not align with the public interest and thus affects the performance of the selected official. This conceptualization highlights the challenge in selecting leaders for independent government oversight functions. Using state auditor as an example, the study finds that whether an auditor is elected or appointed is not correlated with audit findings, but an auditor whose political principal shares the same party affiliation as the auditee (the state governor) are less likely to identify deficiencies in the auditee's financial reporting. The correlation between auditor-auditee political alignment and favorable audit finding is stronger when a governor appoints the auditor.

Keywords: Principal-Agent Theory, Oversight, Government Auditor

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Lang Kate, Selection Method, Partisanship, and Performance of Government Oversight Function (April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5229155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5229155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies