Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting as A Communicative Relief: On Instrumental and Communicative Rationalities in a Swedish Compulsory School Setting

29 Pages Posted: 2 May 2025

Anton Borell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Niklas Wällstedt

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Scholars have long examined accounting’s relationship with communicative and instrumental reasoning — particularly within the context of public sector work. From this body of literature, we have learned that instrumental use of accounting is associated with colonising effects. Moreover, we have seen how these effects can be mitigated through a communicative use of accounting — a deliberative mode considered morally superior. Yet, despite its moral justification, communicative reasoning often proves less effective in practice, with empirical evidence suggesting that actors prefer instrumental over communicative use of accounting in their daily work. This raises a key question: why do failures and regressions into instrumental rationality persist? Based on empirical insights from the Red and Green Matrix (RGM) — an accounting system used in Swedish compulsory schools — this paper argues that the answer lies in the pragmatic conveniences that instrumental reasoning provides. Its orientation towards a calculative logic of exchange enables actors with competing interests to coordinate actions without engaging in the risky and burdensome processes required for communicative deliberation. From this perspective, a central function of instrumental accounting is to offer communicative relief. In contrast to much prior research, which has primarily attributed the expansion of instrumental reasoning in public sector settings to NPM, this paper suggests that this development relates to pragmatic factors extending beyond the mere adoption of reforms. Rather, it stems from more enduring structures and needs within public sector work, i.e., the need to achieve coordination in an environment characterised by multiple, competing interests.

Keywords: Communicative rationality, instrumental rationality, Management Accounting, communicative relief

Suggested Citation:

Borell, Anton and Wällstedt, Niklas, Accounting as A Communicative Relief: On Instrumental and Communicative Rationalities in a Swedish Compulsory School Setting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5239669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5239669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Adcroft , R Willis
The (un)intended outcome of public sector performance measurement
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 386 - 400 Posted: 2005
G Agyemang , J Broadbent
Management control systems and research management in universities: An empirical and conceptual exploration
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 1018 - 1046 Posted: 2015
C E Arrington , A G Puxty
Accounting, interests, and rationality: a communicative relation
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 58 Posted: 1991
J Baxter , W F Chua
The field researcher as author-writer
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 121 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies