Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncovering the Risk of Evaluation Formalism: A Debiased LLM-as-a-Judge Study in Japan's Government Project Reviews

This paper is under peer review.

29 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Masahiro Asami

Independent

Kai Fukunaga

Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (RIETI)

Date Written: May 10, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the challenges of applying the logic model framework to Plan projects, which include Proof of Concept (PoC) and research initiatives. Despite efforts to standardize the framework, we argue that Plan projects often produce low-quality logic models due to inherent limitations in the framework. Using a newly released administrative project review system (RS system), we assess thousands of logic models for Plan projects through a hybrid approach combining Large Language Models (LLMs) and regression adjustments, which correct for known biases in LLM scoring, particularly the tendency to favor longer inputs. Our findings suggest that Plan projects exhibit lower-quality models on average compared to other project types, highlighting the risk of evaluation formalism. We propose an alternative management and evaluation framework tailored to Plan projects, emphasizing hypothesis testing, evidence gap analysis, and feasibility assessments. Additionally, this study demonstrates the potential for scalable monitoring of government evaluations using LLMs.

Keywords: logic model, EBPM, LLM-as-a-Judge, NLP, causal inference

Suggested Citation:

Asami, Masahiro and Fukunaga, Kai, Uncovering the Risk of Evaluation Formalism: A Debiased LLM-as-a-Judge Study in Japan's Government Project Reviews (May 10, 2025). This paper is under peer review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5249953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5249953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Z Asatryan , C Birkholz , F Heinemann
Evidence-based policy or beauty contest? An LLM-based meta-analysis of EU cohesion policy evaluations
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 32 , p. 10797 - 10821 Posted: 2025
I Cheong , K Xia , Kjk Feng
Engaging Legal Experts towards Responsible LLM Policies for Legal Advice
Proceedings of the 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency , volume 24 , p. 2454 - 2469 Posted: 2024
V Chernozhukov , D Chetverikov , M Demirer
Double/debiased machine learning for treatment and structural parameters
The Econometrics Journal , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - C68 Posted: 2018
J Gu , X Jiang , Z Shi
Survey on LLM-as-a-Judge Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
468
RANK
785,362
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies