Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Effects of Financial Accounting Practices on Performance of CBO`S in Mombasa County 

40 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

ruth kombe

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to assess the effects financial accounting practices on performance of Community Based Organizations in Mombasa. The absence of proper financial practices has made it hard for CBOs to remain a going concern and this affects performance on CBOs. Recently there has been a need to assess how financial accounting practices affects performance of CBOs in Mombasa since this sector played major role in the community development. The study will look into whether Community Based Organizations maintain accounting systems and have effective internal controls put in place for effectiveness and efficiency operations. The study also will look at whether donor requirement were adhered to at all times. The research will use descriptive research design with target population being a census of 60 employees from different CBOs in Mombasa County. The questionnaire will be developed and put through a pilot test before distributing to the employees of CBOs. Necessary adjustments and correction will then be done on the questionnaire. The pilot test will help validate content and their sequence and test the accuracy of data gathering instrument. The data will be collected from sampled population through structured questionnaires with closed and open ended question to obtain responses from the respondents. The questionnaires will be administered through drop and pick method. The data will be analysed by use of  computer packages Ms Excel and SPSS and data will be presented using frequency tables, graphs and percentages. The study found out that internal controls, regulatory framework and accounting systems have a significant influence on CBOs performance and hence should be taken seriously.  Research needs to be undertaken to look into other factors affecting performances of CBOs besides the financial accounting practices.

 

Ethics Approval

Ruth Dama Kombe Technical University of Mombasa, P.O.Box 90420-80100 Mombasa. Dear Respondent, REF: RESEARCH STUDY I am a student pursuing Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administartion (Accounting option) at Technical University of Mombasa. It is a requirement that I should undertake this research proposal in fulfilment for the award of a degree. I am conducting an academic research on the effects of financial accounting practices on performance of community based organization in Mombasa County and kindly requesting your participation which is entirely voluntary and fill this questionnaire. All information given will be treated with utmost confidentiality and for the study purposes only. Your ability to answer all the questions comprehensively and to the best of your knowledge will be highly appreciated. I look forward to your support. Thank you. Yours Sincerely, Ruth Dama Kombe.

Suggested Citation:

kombe, ruth,

Effects of Financial Accounting Practices on Performance of CBO`S in Mombasa County 

(May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5262565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5262565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies