Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subsidizing Social Welfare Programs: Contracted Slots or Vouchers?

32 Pages Posted: 22 May 2025 Last revised: 31 Jul 2025

Wei Wei

University of New Hampshire - Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics

Priyank Arora

University of South Carolina - Department of Management Science

Senay Solak

Isenberg School of Management, University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: May 21, 2025

Abstract

Subsidy welfare programs rely on the private service providers’ participation to offer essential services to beneficiaries and, in turn, generate societal outcomes. The voucher program is a widely used program wherein providers serve beneficiaries using their remaining capacity after serving private customers. However, overall service quality may be low due to limited restrictions on participating providers’ quality, and providers’ reimbursement payments are uncertain because beneficiaries often do not use the offered vouchers. Alternatively, the contracted slot program restricts participation to high-quality providers who must reserve some capacity to serve beneficiaries (for guaranteed reimbursements). In each program, since providers’ benefit of mitigating market demand uncertainty by serving beneficiaries differs, providers’ operational decisions and equilibrium outcomes could differ significantly. We develop a game-theoretic model to characterize the optimal participation strategy of providers in each program and identify conditions when one program outperforms the other from the beneficiaries' and providers' perspectives. We show that, under certain localized conditions, providers should make opposite participation decisions in each program, implying that providers should carefully reevaluate their decisions if the government switches program types. Further, we find that the contracted slot program outperforms the voucher program in generating more societal outcomes and a higher total providers’ profit under a wide range of values of contextual factors. However, the contracted slot program (even with a higher reimbursement rate) could be outperformed, e.g., when there are many high-quality providers and their capacity is small. While practitioner debates on these programs typically focus on the number of providers, our findings underscore the importance of considering other localized factors when evaluating program outcomes. Further, based on Massachusetts’ child care subsidy programs, our case study illustrates that the contracted slot (versus voucher) program can generate approximately 16% greater societal outcomes and 4% higher total providers’ profit.

Keywords: subsidy programs, socially responsible operations, public sector operations, game theory

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Wei and Arora, Priyank and Solak, Senay, Subsidizing Social Welfare Programs: Contracted Slots or Vouchers? (May 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5263867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5263867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
G Adams , K Snyder , J Sandfort
Getting and retaining child care assistance: How policy and practice influence parents' experiences Posted: 2008-04-23
W Airgood-Obrycki , S Wedeen
Rental deserts perpetuate socioeconomic and racial segregation Posted: 2022-04-23
D Akkaya , K Bimpikis , H Lee
Government interventions to promote agricultural innovation
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2021
S Akshat , A Scheller-Wolf , J Galbraith , L Lacey
Improving process flow in a child-welfare system: A data-driven approach Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
826,677
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies