Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value of the Not-for-profit Sector 2025: The Fourth Examination of the Economic Contribution of the Not-for-profit Human Services Sector in the Northern Territory

52 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2025

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Ben Perks

University of Western Australia

Date Written: June 17, 2025

Abstract

This study was undertaken by the Centre for Public Value at the University of Western Australia and funded by the Northern Territory Council of Social Service. The Centre for Public Value at UWA is a multi-disciplinary academic group focusing on developing practical research outcomes that are intended to support Australia’s human services sector which includes Not-for-profit and charitable organisations, policy makers, governments, and commentators. Such research outcomes are intended to be industry-ready—that is, they are tools and commentary that are based on high quality research while being focused on implementation and practical supports.

Keywords: Nonprofit, Human Services, Northern Territory, Community Services

Declaration of Interest

This research was funded by the Northern Territory Council of Social Service

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval was not required for this research as it only used publicly available information.

Funder Statement

This research was funded by the Northern Territory Council of Social Service

Clinical Trial Registration

No clinical trials were conducted as part of this research.

JEL Classification: H53, H44, H41, H42

Suggested Citation:

Gilchrist, David and Perks, Ben, Value of the Not-for-profit Sector 2025: The Fourth Examination of the Economic Contribution of the Not-for-profit Human Services Sector in the Northern Territory (June 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5298521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5298521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Volunteering Australia
The National Strategy for Volunteering. Volunteering Australia (Available here Posted: 2015
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT & NORTHERN TERRITORY GOVERNMENT 2023. Australian Government and Northern Territory Government Coordinated Investment Framework
B E R G Berg
Posted: 2024
D J Gilchrist , T Emery
Value of the Not-for-profit Sector 2020: The Second Examination of the Economic Contribution of the Not-for-profit Human Services Sector in the Northern Territory Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Public Goods eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies