Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fallacies Behind The Excise Tax On "Excessive" Charity Compensation

WVU College of Law Research Paper Forthcoming

Loyola University Chicago Law Journal, Vol. 56, p. 17 (2024)

72 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2025 Last revised: 20 Jun 2025

Elaine Wilson

West Virginia University - College of Law

Date Written: June 20, 2025

Abstract

This Article examines the fundamental flaws in Section 4960 of the Internal Revenue Code, which imposes an excise tax on nonprofit executive compensation exceeding $1 million. The provision, enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, rests on three problematic fallacies. First, Congress incorrectly assumed that an excise tax on nonprofits would function equivalently to the elimination of a tax deduction for excessive compensation in the for-profit sector under Section 162(m). Second, lawmakers failed to recognize that nonprofits respond differently to tax incentives than for-profit entities due to their distinct governance structures and sensitivity to public opinion about overhead costs. Third, and most significantly, Section 4960 was never truly intended to regulate excessive compensation, but rather serves to reinforce harmful narratives about nonprofit wages while raising revenue from an already disfavored sector. The Article argues that Section 4960's mechanical approach ignores the complex realities of nonprofit compensation and governance while potentially damaging organizational capacity. Rather than relying on bright-line excise taxes, meaningful reform requires addressing underlying issues. This Article concludes that Section 4960 represents a misguided attempt to regulate nonprofit compensation that may ultimately harm the charitable sector it purports to protect.

Keywords: nonprofit executive compensation, Internal Revenue Code, IRS, 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, excise tax

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Elaine, The Fallacies Behind The Excise Tax On "Excessive" Charity Compensation (June 20, 2025). WVU College of Law Research Paper Forthcoming, Loyola University Chicago Law Journal, Vol. 56, p. 17 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5313541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5313541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

West Virginia University College of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies