Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Oversight and Hospital Behavior: Evidence from Local Newspaper Closures

55 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Tom shang

Michigan State University

Isabel Yanyan Wang

Michigan State University

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how external media oversight influences healthcare delivery by analyzing hospital responses to local newspaper closures. Analyzing 167 closures from 2008 to 2018, we find that reduced scrutiny leads to significant changes in hospital operations, financial outcomes, and patient care. Treated hospitals exhibit 135 more discharges per 100 beds, a 3 percentage point (pp) increase in operating margin, a 0.9 pp rise in inpatient admission ratio, and a 0.4 pp increase in 30-day Medicare readmission rates. These results suggest a shift toward more aggressive and profit-oriented practices, potentially at the expense of care quality. Effects are concentrated among nonprofit and government hospitals and those with weaker community ties. Online media access does not offset the loss of local newspaper coverage. Our findings contribute to research on healthcare delivery and media as a governance mechanism, and support policies aimed at strengthening local journalism to improve transparency in hospital behavior.

Keywords: hospital performance, readmission rate, inpatient admissions, local media oversight, newspaper closures

JEL Classification: I11, I18, L82, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and shang, Tom (Cong) and Wang, Isabel, Media Oversight and Hospital Behavior: Evidence from Local Newspaper Closures (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5314274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5314274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
E R Adrion , K E Kocher , B K Nallamothu , A M Ryan
Rising use of observation care among the commercially insured may lead to total and out-of-pocket cost savings
Health Affairs , volume 36 , issue 12 , p. 2102 - 2109 Posted: 2017
Fast facts on U.S. hospitals Posted: 2024
D S Ardia , E Ringel , V Ekstrand , A Fox
Addressing the decline of local news, rise of platforms, and spread of mis-and disinformation online: A summary of current research and policy proposals Posted: 2020-12-22
G Bai , G F Anderson
Extreme markup: The fifty U.S. hospitals with the highest charge-to-cost ratios
Health Affairs , volume 34 , issue 6 , p. 922 - 928 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
609,870
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies