Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of rising research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical firms on financial performance of hospitals

18 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 26 Aug 2025

Yuto Yoshinaga

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Takahiro Inoue

Tohoku University; Chiba University - Chiba University Hospital

Date Written: July 02, 2025

Abstract

The global rise in pharmaceutical prices, largely driven by increased research and development (R&D) expenditures by pharmaceutical companies, poses financial challenges for hospitals, especially in aging societies such as Japan. Nevertheless, studies have failed to analyze how pharmaceutical firms’ R&D expenditures affect hospital management. Therefore, this study aims to directly examine, using Japanese data, how these firms’ R&D expenditures impact hospitals’ financial performance, and whether special functioning hospitals which provide advanced medical care are more affected. This study adopts fixed-effects models for hospital categories to analyze the impact of pharmaceutical firms’ R&D expenditures on the pharmaceutical cost ratio and medical profit margin of hospitals. Annual financial data for four hospital categories were obtained from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, while R&D data of pharmaceutical companies were collected from NEEDS-Financial QUEST 2.0, eol, and company disclosures. The analysis reveals that R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical firms significantly raise the pharmaceutical cost ratio across hospitals, with a particularly strong effect on special functioning hospitals. Furthermore, these expenditures are associated with a significant decline in the medical profit margins of special functioning hospitals. These results suggest that higher R&D expenditures of pharmaceutical firms trigger a significant deterioration in the financial performance of hospitals offering advanced medical care.

Keywords: Hospital, Research and Development, Accounting, Profit Margin, Pharmaceutical Industry

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conficts of interest.

Ethics Approval

Ethical approval is not applicable to this manuscript.

Funder Statement

This project is funded by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (Grant numbers 25K16768).

Suggested Citation:

Yoshinaga, Yuto and Inoue, Takahiro, Impact of rising research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical firms on financial performance of hospitals (July 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5346028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J M Janssen Daalen , A Den Ambtman , M Van Houdenhoven , Bjf Van Den Bemt
Determinants of drug prices: a systematic review of comparison studies
BMJ Open , volume 11 Posted: 2021
Medicine Evaluation Committee. Trends in pharmaceutical expenditure Posted: 2024-10-31
The White House
Fact sheet: President Donald J. Trump announces actions to put American patients first by lowering drug prices and stopping foreign free-riding on American pharmaceutical innovation Posted: 2025-05-12
K Yokote
National university hospital directors' press conference
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies