Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GASB 68 and the Cost of States' Debt: The Role of Disclosure Timing and Cost-sharing Design

37 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2025

Marc Plooster

Indiana University Bloomington - School of Public & Environmental Affairs (SPEA)

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

This study revisits the relationship between pension transparency and municipal bond pricing by evaluating the impact of GASB 68 using updated treatment timing and robust difference-indifferences methods. While prior work found treasury yield spread increases associated with unfunded pension liabilities, I show that these effects depend critically on both timing of available information and pension plan design. Specifically, states with cost-sharing pension plans experienced smaller or negative changes in yield spreads following GASB 68, even when liabilities were high. These findings suggest that cost-sharing plans reduce perceived risk, and that investor responses to pension disclosures are heterogeneous, time dependent, and sensitive to institutional context.

Keywords: Pensions, Municipal Bonds, Accounting Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Plooster, Marc, GASB 68 and the Cost of States' Debt: The Role of Disclosure Timing and Cost-sharing Design (June 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5348319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5348319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0
a Variables winsorized at 1st and 99th percentiles
References
Fixed Effects include both state and month. Where "Yes", standard errors are robust and clustered by state. c Stacked uses the two-stage DiD estimator from Butts and Gardner Posted: 2021
Kristie A Abston , Phillip C Bryant
Compensation and Benefits in a Pandemic and Post Pandemic World: Introduction to Compensation
Benefits Review , volume 53 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
188
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies