Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redefining Internal Audit Transformation in Philippine Local Government Units: EEIS Framework, Challenges, and Governance Implications

7 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Ivan Jon Ferriol

Romblon State University

Mariel Gagarin

Romblon State University

Date Written: July 16, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the extent of internal audit transformation in municipal governments in the Philippines using a descriptive-correlational research design anchored on the Efficiency, Effectiveness, Impact, and Sustainability (EEIS) framework. The research responds to the growing need for empirical evidence on how the internal audit function (IAF) transforms in decentralized local government units. Data were gathered through a structured survey of 50 purposively selected stakeholders involved in internal audit functions, including local executives, internal auditors, department heads, and MLGOOs. Findings revealed moderate to high levels of internal audit transformation across all four EEIS dimensions. Effectiveness is associated with defined roles and accountability measures. Efficiency was generally associated with organized internal audit systems. Impact implies the initiation of change and the achievement thereof. Sustainability is related to the institutionalization of the IAF. Correlation analysis showed a significant negative relationship between internal audit transformation and challenges. There exists a moderate positive correlation between the transformation of internal audit and the improvement of local governance. These findings support the theoretical relevance of agency theory, state-centered theory, and governance theory in framing internal audit reform in the public sector. The study concludes that internal audit transformation plays a critical role in strengthening local governance. To sustain transformation, addressing the challenges and development of human resources, institutional capacity, and legal frameworks is necessary. This study contributes to the limited literature on internal auditing in local governments and provides policy recommendations for enhancing IAF as a strategic tool for good governance.

Keywords: Internal audit transformation, Internal audit function, EEIS, Local government, Good governance, Internal audit transformation challenges

Suggested Citation:

Ferriol, Ivan Jon and Gagarin, Mariel, Redefining Internal Audit Transformation in Philippine Local Government Units: EEIS Framework, Challenges, and Governance Implications (July 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5356453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5356453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
References Adams , M B
Agency theory and the internal audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
T O Asaolu , S A Adedokun , J U Monday
Promoting good governance through the Internal Audit Function (IAF): The Nigerian experience
International Business Research , volume 9 , issue 5 Posted: 2016
T Asare
Internal auditing in the public sector: Promoting good governance and performance improvement
International Journal on Governmental Financial Management , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 28 Posted: 2009
P Ayagre
Internal audit effectiveness in the Ghanaian public sector
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 8 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
333
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies