Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption in the Planning Process of the Sorong Regency, Indonesia: Evidence from Audit Reports

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Agustinus Salle

Cenderawasih University

Date Written: July 18, 2025

Abstract

This article examines the phenomenon of corruption occurring at the budget planning stage within local government, using the audit findings of the Audit Board of the Republic of Indonesia (BPK) on the Regional Government Financial Reports (LKPD) of Sorong Regency from 2021 to 2023 as a case study. The audit reveals recurring and systemic irregularities, including budgeting without official documents, fictitious activities, misuse of Special Autonomy Funds (Otsus), and the absence of performance indicators in program design. This article employs the theoretical frameworks of state capture, corruption by design, and principal-agent theory to analyze the issue. The findings indicate that corruption at the planning stage is not merely a result of individual misconduct or procedural error, but a structural consequence of opaque institutional design, weak oversight, and elite domination over budgetary processes. The study argues that meaningful reform of public budgeting at the local level must begin with restructuring the planning system to prevent its continued exploitation as a vehicle for bureaucratic corruption.

Keywords: Budget Corruption, Public Planning, State Capture, Institutional Design, Sorong Regency

Suggested Citation:

Salle, Agustinus, Corruption in the Planning Process of the Sorong Regency, Indonesia: Evidence from Audit Reports (July 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5356581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5356581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
C T Borowiak
Accountability and democracy: The pitfalls and promise of popular control Posted: 2011
K Eisenhardt
Agency theory: An assessment and Review
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 1989
Y Farhan
The politics of budgeting in Indonesia Posted: 2018
M Fatimah , H Haryanto , N D Retnandari
Central-Local Government Relations in Regional Planning and Budgeting in Indonesia: Between Autonomy and Control
Policy & Governance Review , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 131 - 153 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies