Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping the Field: A Structured Literature Review on the Reporting of Nonprofit Organizations

Posted: 20 Aug 2025

Sebastian Weber

Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena

Bernd Huefner

Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: August 14, 2025

Abstract

The reporting of nonprofit organizations (NPOs) plays a crucial role in ensuring their access to donations and funding opportunities, fostering stakeholder trust, and ultimately securing their long-term organizational survival. Beyond its immediate relevance for individual organizations, NPO reporting contributes to broader societal goals, such as supporting the effective allocation of public and philanthropic resources or strengthening the legitimacy of NPOs as key actors in delivering public value. The recent establishment of an International Non-Profit Accounting Standard (INPAS) marks a milestone in the development of globally applicable reporting standards for the sector, making it increasingly important to understand how the research field has addressed this topic. 


Despite extensive scholarly attention to NPO reporting, the literature remains fragmented and heterogeneous. This is evident in varying conceptualizations and definitions of NPOs, in diverse theoretical lense, and in addition in heterogenous reporting formats, ranging from financial to performance and sustainability reporting. Such differences and conceptual ambiguities complicate efforts to systematically understand and advance knowledge in this domain. 


This article addresses the gap by conducting the first structured literature review on NPO reporting, based on the stepwise approach by Dumay et al. (2016). A sample of 102 peerreviewed articles was analyzed across ten conceptually derived coding dimensions. The review is guided by three research questions: (1) What are the dominant strands in the existing literature on NPO reporting? (2) What theoretical, methodological, and empirical limitations characterize the field? (3) What avenues offer the most promising directions for future research? The findings offer a comprehensive roadmap of the existing research landscape, highlighting conceptual and methodological heterogeneity, identifying underexplored areas, and providing both a robust foundation and targeted insights to guide future research and practice in the nonprofit sector.

Keywords: Nonprofit Organizations (NPOs), Nonprofit Reporting, Structured Literature Review, IFR4NPO, Standardization, Accountability, Nonprofit Organizations, Legitimacy Theory

Suggested Citation:

Weber, Sebastian and Huefner, Bernd, Mapping the Field: A Structured Literature Review on the Reporting of Nonprofit Organizations (August 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5392023
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
138
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies