Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Audit Supervision on the Crowdfunding Performance of Charitable Foundations

32 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2025

Xia Li

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Huifang Xie

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Minsheng Wang

Southwest University

Abstract

Charitable crowdfunding projects are usually initiated and operated by charitable foundations. Existing studies have primarily focused on how internal characteristics of foundations affect project performance, while largely overlooking the role of government oversight in enhancing the effectiveness of charitable crowdfunding. Based on an original database of charitable crowdfunding projects on Sina Weibo from 2019 to 2023, we examine that the impact of spot-check audit conducted by government agencies on the performance of foundations’ charitable crowdfunding campaigns.Our results show that spot-check audits significantly improve crowdfunding performance, with this effect mediated by increased donor participation, with varying degrees of impact under different project quality conditions. Specifically, the positive impact of spot audits is more pronounced when the beneficiary is a minor, the fundraising period is longer, the initiator’s transparency index is higher, and the project is located in central or western China under the supervision of a municipal-level government. Our study provides insights for governments to better supervise and manage charitable crowdfunding projects.

Keywords: Audit supervision, Charitable projects, Crowdfunding performance, Information quality, Sina Micro-charity

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xia and Xie, Huifang and Wang, Minsheng, The Impact of Audit Supervision on the Crowdfunding Performance of Charitable Foundations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5393159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5393159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Agrawal , C Catalini , A Goldfarb
Some simple economics of crowdfun ding
Innovation Policy and the Economy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2014
Z Ba , Y C Zhao , S Song , Q Zhu
Understanding the determinants of o nline medical crowdfunding project success in China
Information Processing & Manageme nt , volume 58 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
Z Ba , Y C Zhao , S Song , Q Zhu
Does the involvement of charities m atter? Exploring the impact of charities' reputation and social capital on medical crowdfun ding performance
Information Processing & Management , volume 59 , issue 3 Posted: 2022
M Beier , K Wagner
Crowdfunding Success: A Perspective from Social Media and E-Commerce
ICIS Posted: 2015-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
102
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

NGO & Non-Profit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies