Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Subsidies and Operational Efficiency: Evidence from the United States

The Journal of corporate accounting & finance, 2025-04, Vol.36 (2), p.230-248

Posted: 20 Aug 2025

Hua Sun

School of Management

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: November 19, 2024

Abstract

In the United States, prior research links government subsidies to corporate misconduct and income smoothing, fueling debates over the elimination of these subsidies. Contrasting these findings, our study investigates the association between government subsidies and operational efficiency in US firms from 2004 to 2022, using data from the Subsidy Tracker database. We find a significant positive association between government subsidies and operational efficiency, suggesting that these subsidies enhance firms’ resource management and competitive positioning. Further analysis indicates that subsidies exert a more pronounced positive effect on firms with substantial R&D investments. Additionally, we find that government subsidies are positively related to corporate innovation activities and new hiring, highlighting the diverse benefits of subsidies in stimulating innovation and economic growth. This study provides essential insights into the potential of government subsidies as a strategic tool for enhancing operational efficiency, innovation, and employment within the corporate landscape.

Keywords: corporate innovation, government subsidies, operational efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Hua and Xu, Hongkang, Government Subsidies and Operational Efficiency: Evidence from the United States (November 19, 2024). The Journal of corporate accounting & finance, 2025-04, Vol.36 (2), p.230-248, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5398124
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
64
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies