Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When DAFs Draw the Map: Donor-Advised Funds and Geographic Mission Drift in Grantmaking

41 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2025

Helen Flannery

Institute for Policy Studies

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: August 22, 2025

Abstract

Donor-advised funds, or DAFs, have rapidly become a powerful force in American charity. As intermediaries that reside between donors and their ultimate charity recipients, DAFs raise questions about whether they are bringing additional donors and revenue to operating charities, or instead crowding out other giving methods and delaying funding. DAF sponsors, the organizations that house and manage DAFs, are charities themselves, and this raises equally important questions about how DAF programs may influence sponsors’ charitable behavior. We study this latter aspect of DAFs by examining if and how a sponsor’s level of reliance on DAFs for its own funding is associated with the degree of focus it exhibits in its geographic mission. As would be expected, we find that some types of sponsors (notably, community foundations) exhibit more geographically focused grantmaking than others (notably, national sponsors). But we also find that after controlling for sponsor type, a greater reliance on DAFs is associated with a much broader geographic dispersion of grants, and this feature persists across a variety of geographic-focus metrics. We further extend our analysis to consider the connections between geographic focus and DAF-related policy advocacy, funder characteristics, and regional differences, as well as the cause-related concentration of grants. Overall, the results suggest that when sponsors are more reliant on DAFs to fund their grants, they also exhibit greater mission drift in their grantmaking.

Keywords: Charity, Community Foundations, Donor-Advised Funds, Mission Drift, Nonprofit Funding

Suggested Citation:

Flannery, Helen and Mittendorf, Brian, When DAFs Draw the Map: Donor-Advised Funds and Geographic Mission Drift in Grantmaking (August 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5401950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5401950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
128
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit & Philanthropy Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies