Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

“Imposing New Taxes” or “Ending Old Tax Breaks”- the Law and Politics of New Taxation (and conversely of Tax Reduction)

19 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025 Last revised: 25 Sep 2025

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: August 26, 2025

Abstract

Labour’s 2024 UK election manifesto “Change” included 6* key 1st steps for change including: “Recruit 6,500 new teachers… paid for by ending the tax breaks for private schools.” This was accompanied by consistent political messaging from Sir Keir Starmer and top Labour colleagues about ending private school tax breaks, duly followed in 2025 by the imposition of 20% VAT tax on private schools and the removal of their charitable status business rates tax relief.

This note uses this episode as a small laboratory to consider the larger questions of when is the imposition of new taxation actually imposing a new tax and when is it actually just ending a tax break, and when and why would a political party want to message one way or another?

One side conclusion from this analysis, is that it may be currently politically convenient for a UK Labour government to disguise any additional new tax affecting more prosperous right-wing voters also as an “ending of unfair tax breaks” and so we might expect further examples targeted at currently untaxed available wealth stores including housing and pension assets as the Labour government progresses.

Keywords: Tax, Manifesto, Labour, VAT, Rates, Tax Break, Legislation, EEC, EU, Starmer, Trump

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

This draft has been checked ok for compliance with SSRN working paper publication rules, copyright law and fair use rules. The subject matter is politics, education, economics, law and taxation.

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H39, H41, H52, I22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert,

“Imposing New Taxes” or “Ending Old Tax Breaks”- the Law and Politics of New Taxation (and conversely of Tax Reduction)

(August 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5406486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5406486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
E Addley
Thursday briefing: Can ending tax breaks for private schools smash the 'class ceiling'?
Guardian News 13 July 2023 At
News
The Story-Could a Labour Government mean the end of private schools?
G Davies
The end of charitable status of private schools?
Keystone Law 1 November 2023 at
B Debusmann
Trump signs sweeping tax and spending bill into law
BBC News Posted: 2025-07-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies