Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Absolute Priority Multiplier: An Alternative Model for Analyzing Children's and Adolescents' Budgets

Posted: 22 Sep 2025

Alex Rodrigues de Lima

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Izabel Sabino De Sousa

Arizona State University

Flávio Perazzo Barbosa Mota

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

João Marcelo Alves Macedo

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Date Written: December 12, 2024

Abstract

Objective: Examine the allocation of budgetary resources by city governments in Brazilian state capitals for actions and services aimed at children and adolescents. Method: Through an empirical, basic study using a mixed approach and a pragmatic perspective, the 2023 budget laws of the 26 Brazilian capitals are analyzed. Originality/Relevance: The debate promoted by this study sheds light on ways to strengthen the Budget for Children and Adolescents (OCA) as a crucial tool for public policies targeting children and adolescents. Results: The results suggest that only seven capitals include specific annexes in the budget for these policies, pointing to a gap in compliance with the principle of absolute priority provided for in Brazilian legislation. Theoretical/Methodological Contributions: The main methodological contribution of the study consists of the proposition of the Absolute Priority Multiplier (APM), a calculation tool based on demographic data that aims to evaluate, ex-ante, the sufficiency of budget revenue based on the proportion of children and adolescents in the municipal population. Social/Management Contributions: The study indicates that there is a need for advances in budgetary planning to ensure greater attention to the rights of children and adolescents.

Keywords: Absolute Priority Multiplier, Child and Adolescent Budget, Absolute Priority, Public Budget, OCA

Suggested Citation:

Rodrigues de Lima, Alex and Rodrigues de Lima, Alex and Sabino De Sousa, Izabel and Perazzo Barbosa Mota, Flávio and Marcelo Alves Macedo, João, Absolute Priority Multiplier: An Alternative Model for Analyzing Children's and Adolescents' Budgets (December 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5436054
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
29
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Family & Children's Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies