Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
THE IMPACT OF ACCOUNTING INFORMATION IN BUSINESS DECISION-MAKING IN COMMERCIAL COMPANIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOSOVA

11 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Ylber Prekazi

AAB College

Date Written: September 18, 2020

Abstract

Commercial companies are using a various internal and external informational resources in business decision-making. The accounting information system represents the most important internal source of information in order to make adequate business decisions. The accounting system aims to provide primary source information for the business management of companies. Accounting figures relate to the adequate position of financial reports in companies. By placing them in mutual reports such as "Ratio analysis", we manage to obtain relevant information dedicated to the economic and financial situation and the performance of the company. Accounting information enables different users to make decisions based on different source data in order to create mutual debitcredit ratios. This paper aims to analyse the situation of companies (micro, small and medium) in the Republic of Kosovo in terms of the use of accounting information and "Ratio analysis" in the business decisionmaking process. Being aware that accounting information in annual accounts between companies may have a low degree of "reliability". However, it remains the main source of business decisionmaking analysis. For the purpose of this study, the data sources will be used from the accounts of a considerable sample of the trade companies in the Republic of Kosovo, as well as a questionnaire dedicated to this topic. Ratio analysis methods will be used as well as statistical methods in terms of creating and presenting research findings.

Keywords: accounting information, commercial companies, rational analysis, financial reporting, decision making

Suggested Citation:

Prekazi, Ylber and Prekazi, Ylber, THE IMPACT OF ACCOUNTING INFORMATION IN BUSINESS DECISION-MAKING IN COMMERCIAL COMPANIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOSOVA (September 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5479046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5479046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies