Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Assets in Governmental Accounting Reforms: Comparing Flemish Technical Issues with International Standards

Posted: 5 Oct 2004

Johan Christiaens

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Abstract

Although some efforts have been made over the last 20 years, governmental capital assets are still the subject of many unresolved questions. This paper first presents an overview of the current differing accounting standards or research efforts with respect to governmental capital assets and then analyses the criteria of recognition, valuation and disclosure of capital assets in the reform of three kinds of Flemish governments. Their reformed accounting system is compared with IPSAS 17 (IFAC), which is an important internationally driven milestone in respect of capital assets. There appears to be a lack of a conceptual framework regarding capital assets and an attempt is made to structure the existing ideas. Another important issue in governmental accounting is drawing up the "first balance sheet", which is necessary when accounting reforms are implemented. This study indicates that the fact that no separate accounting framework for capital assets with respect to the first balance sheet is distinguished, causes a lot of confusion in the discussion about accounting standards. Finally, the paper aims to provide actual cases as illustrations in analysing governmental accounting standards for capital assets. The examination of the adoption of the governmental accounting reforms, reveals that such reforms do not usually take the specific governmental characteristics of capital assets into account.

Keywords: Governmental accounting, capital assets, governmental assets, accounting reform, accounting framework

JEL Classification: M40, M48, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Christiaens, Johan, Capital Assets in Governmental Accounting Reforms: Comparing Flemish Technical Issues with International Standards. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=599806
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies