Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Reforms of Government Accounting and Budgeting

,

24 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2004 Last revised: 19 Nov 2014

Ken Smith

School Accountability Group

Rita Hartung Cheng

Northern Arizona University; University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Date Written: November 5, 2004

Abstract

We analyze four (4) frameworks for assessing the success of government reforms of accounting and budgeting systems and apply our analysis to performance budgeting reforms in U.S. states. We conclude that performance measures are not useful for the legislative problem of allocating resources among disparate goals, but they are useful for improving the quality and reducing the cost of providing services. Two of the frameworks come from the budgetary literature and focus on allocations (Outcomes view and Process view). The other two come from the accounting literature and focus on incentives among key actors (Monitoring view and Signaling view). The actors considered in this study are Voters, Legislators, Government Managers and the Media. Our theoretical analysis suggests that the four frameworks are often complementary rather than mutually exclusive; however, the Signaling view may provide the best framework for two reasons: 1) it provides insights into the net costs and benefits of adopting a reform and 2) it provides insights into policy suggestions that are likely to increase the adoption of beneficial reforms. Three policy suggestions are given: 1) Legislators should focus on incentives for managers to report performance measures, 2) Performance budgeting should be done on a comparable basis across states, and 3) Influential actors such as legislators and the media should be studied in greater detail.

Keywords: Performance measure, Performance budget

JEL Classification: H72, L33, M40

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Kenneth A. and Cheng, Rita Hartung and Cheng, Rita Hartung, Assessing Reforms of Government Accounting and Budgeting (November 5, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=616921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.616921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Robert N Anthony , Vijay Govindarajan
Management Control Systems Posted: 2004
Robert D Behn
The psychological barriers to performance management: Or why isn't everyone jumping on the performance-management bandwagon? Public Performance & Management Review , volume 26 , p. 5 - 25 Posted: 2002
Robert D Behn
Why measure performance? Different purposes require different measures
Public Administration Review , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 586 - 606 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Brendan F Burke
State-ordered benchmarking: A comparison of voluntary and mandated performance measurement in Ontario. Paper presented at the Association for Budgeting and Financial Management Conference Posted: 2004-10-09
Load more
1 Citations
Bernardino Benito , Francisco Bastida
Budget Transparency, Fiscal Performance, and Political Turnout: An International Approach
Public Administration Review , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 403 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
780
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,073
RANK
73,549
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies