Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Playing Peekaboo with Constitutional Law: The PCAOB and its Public/Private Status

Notre Dame Law Review, Vol. 80, pp. 975-1071, 2005

U of Cincinnati Public Law Research Paper No. 04-10

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper Series

99 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2004 Last revised: 1 Aug 2009

Donna M. Nagy

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Date Written: July 10, 2009

Abstract

This Article is the first to consider the constitutional status of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB - pronounced by some as peekaboo). Congress created the PCAOB in 2002 to regulate the accounting profession in response to scandals at Enron, WorldCom, and other public companies. The Article argues that notwithstanding the PCAOB's congressional designation as a nonprofit corporation in the private sector, its governmental creation, governmental objectives, governmental powers, and governmentally appointed board members render it a public (or state) actor for purposes of constitutional law. The Article also analyzes the PCAOB from a policy perspective, and argues that the public/private PCAOB stands in tension with democratic values such as accountability, transparency, and legitimacy, and that inefficiencies result from its ambiguous status. It concludes with a discussion of legislation pending in Congress that would establish a Mutual Fund Oversight Board, and recommends that even if the PCAOB's status remains unchanged, Congress should not create any other public/private regulators modeled after the PCAOB.

Keywords: PCAOB, state action, accounting, federal government corporations, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Nagy, Donna M., Playing Peekaboo with Constitutional Law: The PCAOB and its Public/Private Status (July 10, 2009). Notre Dame Law Review, Vol. 80, pp. 975-1071, 2005, U of Cincinnati Public Law Research Paper No. 04-10, Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=622964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Colleen M. Boland , Amanda Convery , Renee Flasher
Examining Formal Communications with the PCAOB and Sec: Linguistic Characteristics of Comment Letters Formal Communications with the PCAOB (Short Title)
JPP-D-24-00141 · 46 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2024 · Downloads: 64
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Colleen M. Boland , Amanda Convery , Renee Flasher
Writing to the PCAOB and Sec: Examining Auditors' Formal Communications During Standard Setting
YBARE-D-24-01142 · 46 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,204
RANK
86,861
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies