Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spend-Save Decision: An Analysis of How Charities Respond to Revenue Changes

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2005 Last revised: 13 May 2012

Christopher L. Jones

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Karen A. Kitching

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Pamela C. Smith

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2012

Abstract

We study how charities adjust spending when revenues change. Understanding the decision to spend or save revenues provides insights into management behavior and resource allocations. Our results indicate that, on average, the marginal change in overall spending is substantially less than the marginal change in revenue, indicating that charities smooth spending. Charities save a substantial portion of additional revenues and appear to mitigate reductions in revenues by using past savings, especially amounts saved in the previous year. We also find evidence that charities anticipate revenue declines and save for that purpose. Charities with fewer constraints, such as those with larger net assets and those with revenues from sources less likely to impose revenue spending restrictions, do more smoothing by adjusting spending less.

Keywords: Charity, nonprofit, efficiency, program ratio, marginal spending

JEL Classification: H39, L31, M41, D82, G34

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Christopher L. and Kitching, Karen A. and Alston Roberts, Andrea and Smith, Pamela C., The Spend-Save Decision: An Analysis of How Charities Respond to Revenue Changes (February 1, 2012). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=664603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.664603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrative Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J W Core , R Guay , Verdi
Agency problems of excess endowment holdings in not-forprofit firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 307 - 333 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Nancy Chun Feng , Qianhua Ling , Daniel Neely , Andrea Alston Roberts
Using Archival Data Sources to Conduct Nonprofit Accounting Research
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 26, No. 3 (Fall 2014): 458-493 Posted: 22 Sep 2011 Last revised: 30 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Fischer , T Gordon , S Khumawala
Tax-Exempt organizations and nonarticulation: Estimates Are no substitute for disclosure of cash provided by operations. Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 133 - 158 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Nicolas Duquette
Spend or Save? Nonprofits’ Use of Donations and Other Revenues
Nicolas J. Duquette. 2017. “Spend or Save? Nonprofits’ Use of Donations and Other Revenues,” Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 46(6): 1142-1165., · 35 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 18 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kiely Yonce
We’re in the Money: Unrestricted Cash Windfalls and Charitable Nonprofits
39 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2023 · Last revised: 2 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,839
RANK
214,632
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Constraining Managers Without Owners: Governance of the Not-for-Profit Enterprise

By Mihir A. Desai and Robert J. Yetman

Constraining Managers Without Owners: Governance of the Not-for-Profit Enterprise

By Mihir A. Desai and Robert J. Yetman

Agency Problems of Excess Endowment Holdings in Not-for-Profit Firms

By John E. Core, Wayne R. Guay, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies