Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Involvement in Non-Audit Services: An Empirical Study in a Developing Environment

Posted: 13 Mar 2005

Nidal Rashid Sabri

Birzeit University

Abstract

This article aims to investigate the situation of the non-audit services offered by the CPA to audit clients in a developing environment, namely, the West Bank of Jordan. It is based on collected data and perceptions of CPAs and their clients. The research findings revealed that the majority of the audit attest to engagements includes accounting services; non-audit services formed the majority of CPA services in terms of revenues and work engagements. The study also indicates that the non-audit services were distributed among different groups of clients, including corporations, sole proprietorship-partnership firms, nonprofit organizations, and cooperatives, with different priorities of services, based on the different legal requirements. Accordingly, the study finds that there is a need to adopt a broad scope of audit services and to have relevant standards to regulate the non-audit services in such an environment.

Keywords: Auditing, Non Aduting services, attest function, developing environment

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Sabri, Nidal Rashid, Auditor Involvement in Non-Audit Services: An Empirical Study in a Developing Environment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=676304
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,564
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies