Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Accounting: Recent Trends and Direction for India

Posted: 18 Aug 2005

K. P. Kaushik

Government of India - National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM)

Date Written: July 7, 2005

Abstract

Gone are the days when the function of accounting was limited to record keeping. In today's environment accounting, apart from being a statutory requirement is also expected to provide the government and other users of government's financial statements with relevant, reliable and timely information that will assist them in the decision-making process. The purpose of the present article is: one, to introduce government accounting systems; two, to examine the extent to which the present accounting system followed by our country fulfills the requirement of an ideal accounting system; three, to discuss the experience of the countries that have reformed their accounting system in recent past; and four, to look into the possibility of reforming the accounting system for our country.

Keywords: Government Accounting, India, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Resource Accounting, and Accrual Accounting

JEL Classification: G18, G28, M41, M47, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kaushik, K. P., Government Accounting: Recent Trends and Direction for India (July 7, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=782185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies