Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Trinity: DCF, P/L-Accounts & Shareholder Value - User-Friendly Tools of Management

30 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2005 Last revised: 10 Jun 2016

Jan F. Jacobs

Independent

Date Written: November 5, 2014

Abstract

A series of anticipated (extra) period profits is the ultimate result of a strategic investment. It starts with generating cash and after deduction of value differences and taxes, net profit remains. Period profit, share capital (embedded value - what really is present), shareholder value (economic value - what might happen, additional to the existing activities or 'the market value of the company's shares') and cash flows, are all inter-related.

DCF (Discounted Cash Flow), P/L-accounts and shareholder value form a trinity, exemplified by an integral calculation. Anyone can learn to put this trinity to one's good use. All can be understood easily. The problem definition in this paper is exceptionally simple really, but is nevertheless realistic. It is inclusive of interest costs and tax costs but price changes are disregarded. The aim is to present the core of the algorithm, to teach what and how in order to perform basic computations, starting from scratch. It ends up in user-friendly tools of management that are applicable also in small and medium-sized undertakings. This paper contains usage instructions, indicates some refinements and offers various starting-points to make calculations as far as one likes to go. Of course in practice, compilations must cope with all economical and other insights, with the whole reality. No matter how complex the reality is (for instance 'profit' is a N-dimensional quantity), one cannot deviate an inch from it. However unlikely something may be, if it cannot be excluded beforehand then the solution to the problem in hand must be prepared for it. In fact account must be taken for everything imaginable. Reality indeed is complex and complicated. The problem area is immense and is seemingly a deterrent. Difficult? On the contrary, it is simple. Anyone can understand what it is all about by just counting money.

On the basis of basic data concerning tax rate, standard gearing, standard cost of capital, and other necessary starting data, including of course the expected cash flows, one can quite easily determine the extra value of a company and equivalently NPV (Net Present Value) of an additional investment as well as resulting P/L-accounts, balance sheets and statements of source and use of funds. Shareholder value can also be calculated. All can be done in a very easy way.

Keywords: Discounted Cash Flow, P/L-accounts, Shareholder Value, Firm Value, Net Present Value, Net Value Added, Value Based Management

Suggested Citation:

Jacobs, Jan F., A Trinity: DCF, P/L-Accounts & Shareholder Value - User-Friendly Tools of Management (November 5, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=864444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.864444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
H Bierman , S Smidt
The Capital Budgeting Decision -Economic Analysis and Financing of Investment Projects Posted: 1971
J C Brezet
Het Winstbepalingsstelsel Van der Schroeff, artikelenreeks in TBA Posted: 1982
S M M De Bruijn , M N Hoogendoorn
De kloof tussen aandeelhouderswaarde en eigen vermogen: omvang, oorzaken en oplossingen
TBA Posted: 2000-06
J Bulte , J Dijksma , R Van
Management accounting, WoltersNoordhoff Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,287
RANK
420,621
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies