Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strictly Scrutinizing Campaign Finance Restrictions (& the Courts that Judge Them)

Catholic University Law Review, Vol. 50, No. 13, 2000

36 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2006

John C. Eastman

Claremont Institute Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence

Abstract

This article carefully parses the Supreme Court's decisions in Buckley v. Valeo and its progeny to ascertain whether restrictions on contributions to independent expenditures are subject to strict or a less exacting scrutiny, and whether they are unconstitutional under either level of scrutiny.

Part I summarizes the pre-Nixon circuit split that had developed about the Buckley standard of review.

Part II analyzes restrictions on election speech and political association in a context that falls between contributions to candidates and expenditures, namely, contributions to independent expenditure committees, and tries to reconcile the facially conflicting holdings in Buckley and Citizens Against Rent Control. Looking beyond the simplistic distrinction between "contributions" and "expenditures," the article posits that limits on contributions to independent expenditures are an even more severe infringement upon core First Amendment rights of political speech and association than the Court was willing to acknowledge with respect to the restrictions on contributions to candidates at issue in Buckley and Nixon, and thus must be subjected to strict scrutiny. Moreover, I contend that the Supreme Court already has applied strict scrutiny to such restrictions in the context of contributions to committees making independent expenditures in a ballot measure election, and that the same level of scrutiny is therefore appropriate when assessing such restrictions on contributions to independent expenditure committees in candidate elections.

Finally, in Part III, I contend that restrictions on contributions to independent expenditure committees are unconstitutional even under the slightly-less-than-strict, "rigorous" scrutiny that the Court now applies to restrictions on contributions to candidates, and therefore are clearly unconstitutional under the strict scrutiny that should be applied.

Keywords: Campaign finance restrictions, Freedom of Speech, Freedom of Association, Buckley v. Valeo, Independent Expenditures

JEL Classification: K40, K10

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, John C., Strictly Scrutinizing Campaign Finance Restrictions (& the Courts that Judge Them). Catholic University Law Review, Vol. 50, No. 13, 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=906060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
RANK
819,727
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies