Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Added Value of Religion in Poverty-to-Work Programs: A Framework for Analysis

Journal of Markets and Morality, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 497-524, Fall 2003

Posted: 27 Jun 2006

William H. Lockhart

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

What is the advantage of faith in faith-based poverty-to-work programs? My qualitative, field research sought to determine the key distinctions between faith-based and secular programs by comparing three faith-saturated programs with three secular programs: one run by a reorganized governmental agency, another by a for-profit business, and a third by a secular, non-profit organization. Although the faith-saturated programs suffered somewhat financially without governmental funds, their religious nature affected the social capital, cultural capital, and the internal status provided by these programs. More research is needed to clarify and to quantify how these resources have an effect upon the future employment of their clients or the stability of the programs. Key contextual factors also need to be taken into account.

Keywords: poverty, charity, religion

JEL Classification: I380, Z120, Z130

Suggested Citation:

Lockhart, William H., The Added Value of Religion in Poverty-to-Work Programs: A Framework for Analysis. Journal of Markets and Morality, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 497-524, Fall 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=911572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Poverty eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies