Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reform of the Romanian Local Public Governments Accounting in the Context of the European Integration

11 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2006

Adriana Tiron Tudor

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: April 2, 2006

Abstract

The use of accrual accounting in the public sector is relatively a recent phenomenon with pro and against groups of practitioners and academics. The movement from cash accounting to accrual accounting is a subject of substantial debates all around the world. At the EU requirements and also at the requirements of the International Monetary System, the World Bank, the European Bank and OECD, Romania adopted the accrual accounting system in the public sector started with 2006 year, for all public entities.

The objectives of our research were:

· to estimate the benefits and costs involved in the transition towards the accrual accounting system in the public sector, in local governments.

· to analyze how is perceived the new accounting system by practitioners from all levels of local governments: county, city and village.

The research was developed in Transylvania region in the follows counties Cluj, Bistrita Nasaud, Arad, Salaj, Maramures, Satu Mare, Bihor, Mures, Covasna, Harghita at the level of local public governments with the help of Cluj Regional Training Center for Local Governments Employees, and The Chartered Public Accountants Body from Romania (CECCAR). In each county were organized two round tables with practitioners in accounting from local governments, one in November-December 2005 before the implementation of the new accounting system and one in February-March 2006. The subject of the first round table was to analyze if the practitioners are prepared for the new system and the subject of the second round table was to analyze the problems appeared at the movement from cash accounting to accrual accounting and to find together solutions. At each round table we distributed questionnaires to collect information.

The main results and findings are the follow: there is a huge difference between accountants from cities and towns and communes taking in consideration: the experience working with IT systems, the attitude about the new accounting system, but all of them realized the increased complexity of the financial statements implemented by the new accounting system. They understand the role of developing accounting policies. An important problem is the negative attitude of managers. In accountants' opinion, regarding the new accounting system, the majority answers present the lack of understanding by management, without interest, without support for accountants.

In conclusion all accountants consider important to develop them skills in applying the new accounting system. A valid conclusion about the benefits of the accrual accounting system we can obtain only after some years of application.

Keywords: Public Sector Accounting, Local Governments

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, P20, P30

Suggested Citation:

Tiron Tudor, Adriana, The Reform of the Romanian Local Public Governments Accounting in the Context of the European Integration (April 2, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=924100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.924100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Accounting Standards Board
Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting-Proposed Interpretation for Public Benefit Entities Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2003
T M Carlin , J Guthrie
A Review of Australian and New Zealand Experiences with Accrual Output Based Budgeting, Third Bi-annual Conference of the International Public Management Network Posted: 2000
J L Chan
Government Accounting: An Assessment of Theory Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Chow , C Humphrey
Whole of Government Accounting: an aide to performance, management and accountability? 9th CIGAR Conference Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Filip Hrůza , Petr Valouch
Public Sector Accounting Policy Reform in the Czech Republic: Experience from Local Governments (pilot)
European Financial and Accounting Journal , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 17 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Adriana Tiron-Tudor
Public Sector Accounting, Auditing and Control in South Eastern Europe
, p. 61 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,974
RANK
180,834
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies