Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Just How Much Bigger is Government in Canada? A Comparative Analysis of the Size and Structure of the Public Sectors in Canada and the United States, 1929-2004

44 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2006

J. Stephen Ferris

Carleton University - Department of Economics

Stanley L. Winer

Carleton University - School of Public Policy and Administration; Carleton University-Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: October 4, 2006

Abstract

We compare the size, structure and evolution of the public sectors in Canada and the United States primarily using national income accounting data. In the course of this investigation, which is accompanied by a substantial spreadsheet covering the period from 1929 to 2003/2004, questions are raised about the appropriate definition of the public sector for comparative purposes. Using a definition that consistently includes nonprofit universities and hospitals in both countries, the data illustrate, first, that there is a surprising degree of conformity in the level and rate of change of the expenditure size of government (relative to GDP) between the U.S. and Canada over a long period, as well as in some aspects of expenditure structure such as transfers to persons. Second, the comparative perspective highlights differences during the Great Depression, the immediate post WWII period, and what we call 'the bulge' in consolidated Canadian spending relative to the U.S. in the period between 1960 and 2004 that peaked in 1992, a bulge that remains even after defense spending is netted out, suggesting that explanations of the evolution of differences over time across countries may be more meaningful than those that focus on permanent differences in size. Third, application of a newly constructed Fisher type government deflator for Canada indicates that real government spending relative to real aggregate income as of 2003 was virtually the same in the two countries, at about 27 percent of real GDP. The paper concludes with a number of provocative questions that arise in the course of our investigation.

Keywords: size of government, structure of public expenditure, comparative analysis, national accounts, Canada vs. United States

JEL Classification: H10, H11, H40, H50, H70

Suggested Citation:

Ferris, J. Stephen and Winer, Stanley L., Just How Much Bigger is Government in Canada? A Comparative Analysis of the Size and Structure of the Public Sectors in Canada and the United States, 1929-2004 (October 4, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=949033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.949033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
William J Baumol
Macroeconomics of unbalanced growth: the anatomy of urban Crisis
American Economic Review , volume 57 , p. 415 - 426 Posted: 1967
Richard Bird
The Growth of Government Spending in Canada. Toronto: Canadian Tax Foundation Posted: 1970
Paul Boothe
The Growth of Government Spending in Alberta. Toronto: Canadian Tax Foundation
Canadian Tax Paper , issue 100 Posted: 1995
Thomas E Borcherding , J , Stephen Ferris , Andrew Garzoni
Changes in the Real Size of Government Since , p. 77 - 108 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,800
RANK
266,613
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Arms and the Man: World War I and the Rise of the Welfare State

By Leonard Dudley and Ulrich Witt

Intertemporal Analysis of State and Local Government Spending: Theory Ad Tests

By Douglas Holtz-eakin, Harvey S. Rosen, ...

Searching for Keynes: With Application to Canada, 1870-2000

By J. Stephen Ferris and Stanley L. Winer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies