Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an Understanding of the Phases of Goodwill Accounting in Four Western Capitalist Countries: From Stakeholder Model to Shareholder Model

70 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2007

Jacques Richard

Université Paris Dauphine

Yuan Ding

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: June 2007

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to illustrate that the change in shareholders' attitude towards firms (from stakeholder model to shareholder model) influences the accounting treatments of goodwill. Our study is based on four countries (Great Britain, the United States, Germany, and France) and covers more than a century, starting in 1880. We explain that all these countries have gone through four identified phases of goodwill accounting, classified as (1) "static" (immediate or rapid expensing), (2) "weakened static" (write-off against equity), (3) "dynamic" (recognition with amortization over a long period) and (4) "actuarial" (recognition without amortization but with impairment if necessary). We contribute several new features to the existing literature on goodwill: our study (1) is international and comparative, (2) spans more than a century, (3) uses the stakeholder/shareholder models to explain the evolution in goodwill treatment in the four countries studied. More precisely, it relates a balance sheet theory, which distinguishes four phases in accounting treatment for goodwill, to the shift from a stakeholder model to a shareholder model, which leads to the preference for short-term rather than long-term profit, (4) contributes to the debate on whether accounting rules simply reflect or arguably help to produce the general trend towards the shareholder model, (5) demonstrates a "one-way" evolution of goodwill treatment in the four countries studied, towards the actuarial phase.

Keywords: Goodwill, Accounting history, Social nature of accounting, Stakeholder/shareholder models, Corporate governance, France, Germany, Great Britain, Japan, United States

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Richard, Jacques and Ding, Yuan and Stolowy, Hervé, Towards an Understanding of the Phases of Goodwill Accounting in Four Western Capitalist Countries: From Stakeholder Model to Shareholder Model (June 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1000735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1000735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
258 References
Accounting concepts and standards underlying corporate financial statements
The Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 339 - 344 Posted: 1948
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Dérives du capitalisme financier Posted: 2004
Uniform accounting
Journal of Accountancy , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 401 - 433 Posted: 1917
Accounting research bulletin (ARB) No. 40: Business combinations
AIA Posted: 1950
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
765
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,212
RANK
75,449
6 Citations
258 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies