Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Budgets with Bounded Rational Accountants: Modeling Costly Accounting Information

AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper

19 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2007

Stavros Dafnos

Olympic Airways Services - Research, Budgeting and Statistics Division

Date Written: August 1, 2007

Abstract

Budgeting has been identified as a problematic area for most corporations. Budgeting is a resource-consuming practice. The analytical research on budgeting does not incorporate the costs of processing and communicating information. Explicitly or implicitly, the analytical models assume that management accountants and decision makers are fully rational. Taking into account the costly nature of information is one way of capturing the bounded rationality of people. Up to around 1990, economists remained silent about such costs. In the 1990's, new models have been developed that incorporate these costs. The present paper employs these tools to incorporate costly information processing into budgeting. I consider the processing of accounting information within a firm in order to find out how bounded rational accountants develop budgets and accounting information systems. This examination will help management accountants understand better the processing of accounting information and its costs, so that they can develop and implement more efficient budgets. In addition, the bounded rationality of accountants and other members of an organization provides a justification for the decentralized nature of most modern corporations.

Keywords: Budgeting, Costly Information

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Dafnos, Stavros, The Development of Budgets with Bounded Rational Accountants: Modeling Costly Accounting Information (August 1, 2007). AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1004237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1004237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,060
RANK
333,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies