Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Memory, Transaction Records, and The Wealth of Nations

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 34, No. 8, 2009

51 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2007 Last revised: 3 Dec 2013

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Marcus Kirk

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 21, 2009

Abstract

Adam Smith hypothesized that impersonal exchange was necessary for a society to develop specialized division of labor and create wealth. Douglass North and Vernon Smith argue that successful developed economies are the result of institutions. We hypothesize and provide evidence from ethnographic data that the basic accounting technology of recording transactions is associated with more extensive impersonal exchange and increased specialization in the division of labor. Our intuition is that extensive impersonal exchange requires reliable memory of trading partners’ past behavior to sustain trust and encourage reciprocity when a group expands beyond the size of traditional hunter-gatherer groups. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that transaction records are necessary for the emergence of complex economies as suggested by the archaeological evidence of recordkeeping in Mesopotamian societies 10,000 years ago.

Keywords: Recordkeeping, accounting history, economic development and institutions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M46, O10, N20, G20, D20

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Kirk, Marcus and Waymire, Gregory B., Memory, Transaction Records, and The Wealth of Nations (September 21, 2009). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 34, No. 8, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1008879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1008879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
J Allman
Evolving Brains
Scientific American Library Posted: 2000
C Assadourian
String registries: native accounting and memory according to the Colonial sources
Narrative Threads: Accounting and Recounting in Andean Khipu Posted: 2002
R Axelrod , W Hamilton
The evolution of cooperation
Science , volume 211 , issue 4489 , p. 1390 - 1396 Posted: 1981
Crossref
M Baker
A structural model of the transition to agriculture
Journal of Economic Growth , volume 13 , p. 257 - 292 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,272
RANK
109,776
1 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Recordkeeping and Human Evolution

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity

By Sudipta Basu, John W. Dickhaut, ...

Reputation Effects of Information Sharing

By Radhika Lunawat

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies