Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fascist Corporative Economy and Accounting in Italy During the Thirties: Exploring the Relations between a Totalitarian Ideology and Business Studies

Accounting, Business & Financial History, Vol. 17, No. 2, July 2007; https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09585200701376550

Posted: 10 Sep 2007

Lino Cinquini

Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Abstract

In the last century the fascist era in Italy continued for more than 20 years, ending with the conclusion of the Second World War. This paper explores how the strong ideological commitment of Fascism, in contrast to liberal ideologies of democracy and free market, operated within the field of accounting and business studies at the pinnacle of the dictatorship experience (the thirties). The totalitarian regime called for the transformation of society and the economic system by introducing an alternative corporative economy, planned and regulated but without abolishing private enterprises. The degree of adhesion to the 'corporative' ideology on the part of academics, the influence on subjects and on further development of Italian accounting and business research are investigated and discussed.

Keywords: Fascist ideology, corporative economy, accounting

JEL Classification: M49, N44

Suggested Citation:

Cinquini, Lino, Fascist Corporative Economy and Accounting in Italy During the Thirties: Exploring the Relations between a Totalitarian Ideology and Business Studies. Accounting, Business & Financial History, Vol. 17, No. 2, July 2007; https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09585200701376550 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1012848
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies, Institute of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies