Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Forms of Accountability in Ancient Civilizations: Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt

Instituto de Empresa Business School Working Paper No. WP05-21

32 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2007

Salvador Carmona

Instituto de Empresa

Mahmoud Ezzamel

Cardiff Business School - Accounting and Finance Section

Date Written: December 5, 2005

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to identify the relevance and implications of ancient accounting practices to the contemporary theorizing of accounting. The paper provides a synthesis of the literature on ancient accounting particularly in relation to issues of human accountability, identifies its major achievements and outlines some of the key challenges facing researchers. We argue that far from being an idiosyncratic research field of marginal interest, research in ancient accounting is a rich and promising undertaking that holds the promise of significantly enhancing our understanding of the roles of accounting in organizations and society. The paper concludes by considering a number of implications of ancient accounting practices for the theorizing of accounting and identifies a number of possible avenues for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Carmona, Salvador and Ezzamel, Mahmoud, Accounting and Forms of Accountability in Ancient Civilizations: Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt (December 5, 2005). Instituto de Empresa Business School Working Paper No. WP05-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1016353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1016353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
927
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,677
RANK
58,095
9 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Business History eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies