Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The History of Management Accounting in France, Italy, Portugal, and Spain

Instituto de Empresa Business School Working Paper No. WP05-30

32 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2007

Salvador Carmona

Instituto de Empresa

Date Written: November 18, 2005

Abstract

Historical research has shown the influence of environmental contexts on the design and functioning of management accounting systems. In contrast to the relatively competitive settings that witnessed the emergence of cost systems in Anglo-American contexts, the focal settings featured inter alia the imposing role of religious and social philosophers' ideas on society as well as distinctive degrees of state intervention in the economy. The findings question traditional contentions that double-entry bookkeeping spread from the fifteenth through the eighteenth centuries and that cost calculations have been implemented only since the advent of the British Industrial Revolution

Keywords: Management Accounting Systems, Competition, Regulation, Monopoly, History

JEL Classification: D42, K2, N00

Suggested Citation:

Carmona, Salvador, The History of Management Accounting in France, Italy, Portugal, and Spain (November 18, 2005). Instituto de Empresa Business School Working Paper No. WP05-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1016360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1016360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
M J Alvarez , F Gutiérrez , D Romero
Accounting and Quality Control in the Royal Tobacco Factory of Seville
An Historical Perspective. Accounting, Business and Financial History , volume 12 , p. 253 - 274 Posted: 2002
C Álvarez-Dardet , J Baños , F Carrasco
Accounting and Control in the Founding of the New Settlements of Sierra Morena and Andalucia
European Accounting Review , volume 11 , p. 419 - 439 Posted: 2002
V Antonelli , T Boyns , F Cerbioni
The Development of Cost Accounting in Europe in the Nineteenth Century: An Early Italian Example
University of Cardiff Working Paper Series Posted: 2005
V Antonelli , T Boyns , F Cerbioni
The Development of Management Accounting in Italy: Ansaldo in the Early Decades of the Twentieth Century
University of Cardiff Working Paper Series Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,597
RANK
43,985
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Study of Boundaries in the Social Sciences

By Michèle Lamont and Virág Molnár

The Study of Boundaries in the Social Sciences

By Michèle Lamont and Virág Molnár

Corporate Governance and Employment Relations: Spain in the Context of Western Europe

By Ruth V. Aguilera

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies