Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunities for Artificial Intelligence Development in the Accounting Domain: The Case for Auditing

International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 77-86, July/September 2006

Posted: 17 Oct 2007

Amelia A. Baldwin

University of Arkansas at Fort Smith

Carol E. Brown

Oregon State University - College of Business

Brad S. Trinkle

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

This paper reviews the nature of accounting and auditing problems and the need for application of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to the discipline. The discussion includes current accounting issues for which new AI development should be fruitful, particularly auditing and assurance.

Keywords: auditing, assurance, accounting, articifial intelligence, AI

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Baldwin, Amelia A. and Brown, Carol E. and Trinkle, Brad S., Opportunities for Artificial Intelligence Development in the Accounting Domain: The Case for Auditing. International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 77-86, July/September 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1022349
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies