Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review and Analysis of the Existing Research Streams in Continuous Auditing

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Vol. 4, 2007

Posted: 17 Oct 2007

Carol E. Brown

Oregon State University - College of Business

Jeffrey Wong

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Amelia A. Baldwin

University of Arkansas at Fort Smith

Abstract

A growing body of literature related to continuous auditing topics has developed. Advances in information technology and web-based applications are making monitoring and control of operations through continuous auditing increasingly important. The objective of this paper is to describe, summarize and provide a framework for classifying the contributions of the diverse literature addressing the topic of continuous auditing. This paper was intended to provide researchers and practitioners with a background in continuous auditing topics. Our broad view the literature is also designed to discover areas holding the potential for future research. Research streams are divided into five major categories: demand factors, theory and guidance, enabling technologies, applications, and impacts. Over eighty papers have been identified that relate to these areas. Many more articles exist especially in the area of enabling technologies. However, the focus of our paper is the literature most closely related to continuous auditing.

Keywords: Accounting, auditing, continuous auditing, assurance, XBRL

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Carol E. and Wong, Jeffrey and Baldwin, Amelia A., A Review and Analysis of the Existing Research Streams in Continuous Auditing. Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Vol. 4, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1022323
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,888
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies