Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rethinking the Role of the Auditor: Resolving the Audit/Tax Services Debate

Queen's Law Journal, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2006

Queen's Univ. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 07-07

56 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2007

Paul D. Paton

Chapman University

Abstract

Expectations of the role of the audit professional in Canada and the United States have significantly changed in recent years. In the wake of Enron's collapse and the advent of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the U.S., there has been a new focus on the independence of the audit function. American legislative and regulatory reforms in 2002 and 2003 did much to clarify the independence issues surrounding auditors. However, whether auditing firms should be permitted to provide tax services to their audit clients remains unresolved. While the approach in the United States has been to permit the dual provision of audit and tax services, Canadian regulators continue to consider their response.

This paper reviews the legislative history of Sarbanes-Oxley and the history of tax services themselves. The author concludes that the U.S. Congress never intended to prevent auditors from providing non-audit services. This conclusion is substantiated by the final rule adopted in April 2006, which allows auditors to provide some tax services. The author finds merit in the U.S. response, because auditors have provided tax services for many years without any evidence of impaired independence and because the safeguards imposed by the new rule limit the possibility for abuse. However, because Canada uses a more principles-based approach to auditing and audit standards, the author concludes only that some of the U.S. rules are appropriate or necessary in the Canadian context.

The tax services debate illustrates the challenges in resolving issues of auditor independence. The five-year history of the debate reveals many of the considerations behind the need to balance efficient capital markets and investor protection. It also reveals the "expectations gap" between the reality of audit service provision and market conceptions of an auditor's role, which make it more difficult to find the appropriate balance. The author concludes that the U.S. result strikes an appropriate balance which enhances regulatory scrutiny yet maintains freedom in corporate choice of professional service providers.

JEL Classification: M49, G38, G34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Paton, Paul D., Rethinking the Role of the Auditor: Resolving the Audit/Tax Services Debate. Queen's Law Journal, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2006, Queen's Univ. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 07-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1023693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
) and 3551 et seq , p. 2 - 121
D Tex
Posted: 2002-06-15
Crossref
Justices Overturn Andersen Conviction
The Washington Post , issue 1 Posted: 2005-06
Arthur Andersen employed 85,000 people in 390 offices in 85 countries. By the following year this was reduced to just over 3000 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,023
RANK
171,101
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies