Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity

60 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2007 Last revised: 12 Nov 2007

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

John W. Dickhaut

Chapman University (Deceased)

Gary Hecht

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kristy L. Towry

Emory University

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 7, 2007

Abstract

We experimentally demonstrate a causal link between recordkeeping and reciprocal exchange. Recordkeeping improves memory of past interactions in a complex exchange environment, which promotes reputation formation and decision coordination. Economies with recordkeeping exhibit a beneficially altered economic history where the risks of exchanging with strangers are substantially lessened. Our findings are consistent with prior assertions that complex and extensive reciprocity requires sophisticated memory to store information on past transactions. We offer fresh insights on this research because we scientifically demonstrate that reciprocity can be extended by information storage external to the brain. This is consistent with the hypothesis suggested by the archaeological record that pre-historic transaction records and the invention of writing for recordkeeping facilitated increased scale and complexity in human interaction.

Keywords: Reciprocity, accounting, recordkeeping

JEL Classification: D00, D63, D80, M40, O12

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Dickhaut, John and Hecht, Gary and Towry, Kristy L. and Waymire, Gregory B., Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity (November 7, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1027668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1027668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Gouldner
American Sociological Review , volume 25 , p. 161 - 178 Posted: 1960
Crossref
R Alexander
The Biology of Moral Systems Posted: 1987
E Wilson
The 25 th Anniversary Edition Posted: 2000
D Brown
Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,783
RANK
251,810
13 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Recordkeeping and Human Evolution

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Reputation Effects of Information Sharing

By Radhika Lunawat

Memory, Transaction Records, and The Wealth of Nations

By Sudipta Basu, Marcus Kirk, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies