Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Independence Concept Revisited

Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 20, 2007

Posted: 17 Nov 2007

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Abstract

John L. Carey retired as executive director and administrative vice president of the AICPA in l970. He had been associated with the AICPA since 1925. The first non-CPA to receive the AICPA Gold Medal Award, and one of the few non-CPAs to be elected to the Accounting Hall of Fame, Carey authored numerous articles for professional journals and books. In 1969-70 he authored a two volume history of the AICPA entitled The Rise of the Accounting Profession. The original version of this paper, previously unpublished, was delivered to an accounting seminar at the University of Illinois in 1970. Carey's first major book length work on CPA ethics was published by the American Institute in 1946. A specialist in CPA ethics, Carey continued to follow the developments of the CPA profession from his retirement home in Taconic, Connecticut until he passed away. This paper was first published in 1987 and is reproduced from Catalyst magazine with permission from The Ohio Society of CPAs.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Professionalism

JEL Classification: M49, M41

Suggested Citation:

Previts, Gary J., The Independence Concept Revisited. Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 20, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1029185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies