Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Equity Transactions - Marking Equity to Market: 400 Years Overdue? Or, GAAP's Gap: Pacioli After the Dutch East India Company

29 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2007 Last revised: 16 Dec 2007

M. A. Gumport

MG Holdings/SIP

Date Written: December 5, 2007

Abstract

It is time for accounting to recognize the existence of stock exchanges and stop treating the equity accounts of public corporations as if they belonged to 15th century private partnerships. When Pacioli's codification of the principles of accounting was published in 1494, stock exchanges did not exist. After the founding of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) in 1602, that changed. It is time for accounting to change, too.

The VOC's growth to become the 17th century's largest commercial enterprise was advanced by financial innovations that fostered liquid trading in its shares, a development credited as the progenitor of today's public stock exchanges. In 1609, VOC shares became non-redeemable and lost directorship rights, so that, besides the possibility of future dividends (none had yet been paid), investors' sole focus became the ease of transferability and the possibility of capital gain. Though the VOC's charter limited its issuance of equity capital, the well recognized value of its stock served the VOC and its shareholders as collateral to secure loans on advantageous terms. The access to capital afforded by publicly traded, readily transferable, non redeemable shares confirmed the value of equity distinct from historical book value, and the British emulated and improved upon the invention later that century.

Today, the equity market value of corporations routinely exceeds accounting book value by several fold. Some might postulate the spread is largely theoretically justified and partly market error. An alternative explanation is just the reverse: The market is mainly right but accounting wrong, and the spread, GAAP's gap, readily measured and monetized, reflects accounting's failure to adapt to the reality of public stock exchanges.

Accounting should capitulate and treat equity like other assets and liabilities by marking it to market and recognizing profit and loss on equity transactions. Mark to market equity accounting eliminates GAAP's gap, loses nothing and gains much: Adjusted financial statements match today's but add lines that render a more complete picture of a firm's transactions and current standing.

Keywords: accounting, equity, mark to market, FASB, SFAS 123r, SIV, Pacioli, Dutch East India, VOC, liability and equity project, hidden asset, 10b5-1, 10b5 1, 10b-18, 10b 18, double entry, equity value added

JEL Classification: G12, G24, G30, G32, G34, G35, G38, M41, M44, K22

Suggested Citation:

Gumport, Michael A., Accounting for Equity Transactions - Marking Equity to Market: 400 Years Overdue? Or, GAAP's Gap: Pacioli After the Dutch East India Company (December 5, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1062201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1062201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,540
RANK
155,190
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies