Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Intangibles - A Critical Review of Policy Recommendations

39 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2008

Douglas J. Skinner

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: December 2007

Abstract

I review and critically evaluate the arguments in favor of reforming current accounting and disclosure practices related to intangibles. I argue that the case for reform is actually rather weak. Proponents of reform provide little cogent evidence in support of claims that current practice is having adverse capital market effects. In fact, theory and evidence from corporate finance suggest that capital markets perform well in financing investments in innovative, high-technology activities. I discuss why mandating additional disclosure in this area is unlikely to be successful and that proposals to recognize intangibles are also flawed. In my view, private incentives are likely to be the most successful way of encouraging disclosure on intangibles, which means that little needs to be done on the part of accounting standard-setters.

Keywords: Intangibles, Policy Recommendations, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Skinner, Douglas J., Accounting for Intangibles - A Critical Review of Policy Recommendations (December 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1080572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1080572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,751
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,392
RANK
22,924
13 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies