Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Accounting Frauds and Corporate Governance Systems: An Analysis of Recent Scandals

16 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2008

Riccardo Tiscini

Universitas Mercatorum

Francesca di Donato

UNINT

Date Written: June 2006

Abstract

Evidence on accounting irregularities and frauds has shown how corporate governance systems in modern economies are far from preventing the risk of misleading financial information.

This paper has the purpose to study the main features of some well-known italian and international accounting frauds, to find some relations between corporate governance rules, control systems, accounting regulation and the frauds themselves.

Deeply, each case of accounting fraud will be analysed through the following grid of main features:

Origin, causes and incentives - Accounting irregularities causes, incentives and effects on firms results; - Purpose and interests pursued with them; Development Process - Time extension of frauds implementation and growth of dimension over time; - People involved in and acknowledged of the fraud; Implementation tools - Voices subject to manipulation and typologies of accounting tools for irregularities implementation; - The attitude of openly violating or just eluding rules and accounting standard. Internal and External controls - External and internal auditors effectiveness and role; - Ownership and management decision-making rules.

The final purpose is to identify the relation between frauds characteristics, economic and legal systems and corporate governance practices in different countries. to highlight the effects of contest variables, regulation and control systems on the genesis and development of accounting fraud.

Keywords: Accounting frauds, corporate governance, control systems

Suggested Citation:

Tiscini, Riccardo and di Donato, Francesca, The Relation between Accounting Frauds and Corporate Governance Systems: An Analysis of Recent Scandals (June 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1086624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1086624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,882
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,387
RANK
10,288
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Nothing Succeeds Like Succession: A Critical Review of Leader Succession Literature Since 1994

By Robert C. Giambatista, W. Glenn Rowe, ...

Making Organization Research Matter: Power, Values, and Phronesis

By Bent Flyvbjerg

Becoming a Triple Stranger: Autoethnography of a Kibbutznik's Long Journey to Discoveries of Researchers' Faults

By Reuven Shapira

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies