Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accounting Standard Setting on Accounting Quality

40 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2008

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Terry Warfield

University of Wisconsin - Wisconsin School of Business

Date Written: January 31, 2008

Abstract

We investigate the accounting quality attributes of nineteen general purpose accounting standards implemented over the past thirty years. Our research is timely given recent criticism of U.S. standard setting, within the context of international convergence. Evidence on how U.S. accounting standards impact accounting quality helps evaluate the overall standard setting process. While we find no differences in earnings forecast dispersion or persistence before and after accounting standards implemented during this period, analyst forecast errors decrease following new standards consistent with improved information environments for the analysts to forecast earnings. Earnings response coefficients (ERCs) and accrual quality decrease, but the value relevance of the balance sheet increases, consistent with the trend toward an asset/liability focus of accounting standards. These results are consistent with FASB's adherence to definitions of assets and liabilities (a balance sheet focus) and enhanced disclosures in implementing standards during this period. Thus, we provide evidence based on existing standards that can be used to assess the merits of the U.S. standard setting and to evaluate proposals on the direction of future standard setting.

Keywords: Accounting Quality, Accounting Standard Setting, GAAP

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, G29

Suggested Citation:

Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Warfield, Terry D., The Effects of Accounting Standard Setting on Accounting Quality (January 31, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1090934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1090934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,991
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,197
RANK
18,764
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies