Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Actual Economic Role of Financial Reporting?

12 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2008

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 7, 2008

Abstract

This short essay is based on a presentation at the panel discussion on "Big Unanswered Questions in Accounting" at the American Accounting Association Meetings in 2007. It poses the question "what is the actual economic role of financial reporting?" and discusses why this is an important question, why it is unanswered, and the types of inventive research design needed to help answer it. Examples of the types of questions involved are given.

Keywords: financial reporting, accounting, research design

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, What is the Actual Economic Role of Financial Reporting? (February 7, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1091538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1091538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,335
RANK
8,187
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies