Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Gender Distribution Among Accounting Academics

International Journal of Critical Accounting, Vol. 1, Nos. 1/2, pp. 110-122, 2009

23 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2008 Last revised: 8 Sep 2010

Frederick J. Feucht

Prairie View A&M University

Stanley Kratchman

Texas A&M University

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 6, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine current developments in the distribution of men and women in accounting academia, including university faculty positions and in leadership roles in the American Accounting Association (AAA). The study also reviews women’s participation in the accounting practice field. The proportion of faculty positions held by women has increased in all academic ranks. The proportion of AAA leadership positions held by women has increased, such as regional vice presidents and membership on editorial boards. However, even with these increases, a much lower proportion of women hold senior academic ranks and leadership positions in the AAA. Perhaps, if the trend continues, women will account for a higher proportion of these academic roles in the future, but due to different perspectives on work-life balance and other gender-related differences, women may choose to hold a lower proportion of these roles.

Keywords: gender issues, accounting academe, accounting profession

JEL Classification: M40, L84

Suggested Citation:

Feucht, Frederick J. and Kratchman, Stanley and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, Changes in Gender Distribution Among Accounting Academics (September 6, 2010). International Journal of Critical Accounting, Vol. 1, Nos. 1/2, pp. 110-122, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1091017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
AICPA, Summit: Career and Life in the Balance Posted: 2003-05-12
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
Work-Life Balance Posted: 2006-01-01
American Accounting Association Website: aaahq.org Posted: 2008-01-05
Crossref
Dominique Anxo , L Flood , L Mencarini , A Pailhé , A Solaz , M Tanturri
Time Allocation between Work and Family Over the Life-Cycle: A Comparative Gender Analysis of Italy, France, Sweden and the United States Posted: 2007-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,697
RANK
230,052
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Time Allocation between Work and Family Over the Life-Cycle: A Comparative Gender Analysis of Italy, France, Sweden and the United States

By Dominique Anxo, Lennart Flood, ...

Do Gender, Educational Level, Religiosity, and Work Experience Affect the Ethical Decision-Making of U.S. Accountants?

By A. Craig Keller, Katherine Taken Smith, ...

A Qualitative Investigation into the Meaning of Family Well-Being from the Perspective of Part-Time Professionals

By Fahri Karakas and Mary Dean Lee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies