Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Place of Ethics Scholarship in the U.S. Accounting Academy: Accounting Doctorates' Research Productivity in Ethics Journals

Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 10, pp. 167-192, 2005

Posted: 19 Feb 2008

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

David F. Bean

Independent

Paul F. Williams

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

While there has been research that assesses the research productivity of doctoral programs, the existing research uses journals that do not include ethics as a principal area of interest for manuscripts. In an era that witnessed the Enron/Arthur Andersen scandal, among other publicized ethical lapses, the resultant expectation would be for an increased focus/emphasis on ethics in mainstream accounting research. Given the hue and cry about ethics and the acknowledged/conferred responsibility of academia for the development of ethical graduates, perhaps ethics should be one of the primary research themes and paradigms in accounting scholarship. To the extent that this is an acknowledged and accepted destination, it is essential to know where we currently stand on this important journey.

This research provides data on the level of productivity in accounting ethics research for the graduates of doctoral programs in accounting from 1969 through 1998. We rate this productivity using the research published in 21 ethics journals, which were analyzed for the 35-year period (1968-2002). The study identifies the doctoral programs graduating the largest number of scholars publishing ethics research.

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Bean, David F. and Williams, Paul F., The Place of Ethics Scholarship in the U.S. Accounting Academy: Accounting Doctorates' Research Productivity in Ethics Journals. Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 10, pp. 167-192, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1094755
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies