Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Art

Scandinavian Journal of Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 18 Feb 2020

Luca Zan

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Abstract

In recent years, terms such as economics of art and cultural economics are increasingly used in western societies, especially in those with a rich cultural heritage. What is relatively less discussed is a sort of, as it were, 'micro' approach, focused on managerial issues at the level of the single cultural organisation. This is a somewhat strange state of affairs, given that the pressure for efficiency and resource reduction tends to have major impacts at this particular level. As part of the annual congress of the European Accounting Association in May 1999, a symposium was held on the relationships between Accounting and Art, a discussion of which is presented here. The contribution of the editor (Luca Zan) examines possible elements of interest in studying accounting for art. Then there follows the contribution of Anthony Blackstock, Finance Director of the British Museum, a member of the accounting profession and the first person to hold this post in the long history of the organisation. Mr. G. Cerutti, General Manager of the Centre Pompidou, focuses on managerial implications regarding accounting and art, stemming from the reduction in public funding to state cultural institutions in France. Mr. C. Mayer, Art Director of the S. Carlo Theatre in Naples, investigates the ideological and financial reasons of the crisis of Italian Opera.

Keywords: Arts management, accountability, arts organizations

JEL Classification: M10, M20, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zan, Luca, Accounting for Art. Scandinavian Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1094279
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,502
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies