Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a History of Accounting Histories

European Accounting Review Vol. 3, No. 2, 1994

Posted: 17 Feb 2008

Luca Zan

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Abstract

In recent years there has been increasing recognition of the marked national differences in approaches to accounting. What is less clearly appreciated is how accounting historiography is also fragmented into different national traditions, with diverse patterns and frameworks for reconstructing and interpreting accounting's evolution. The prominence given to accounting theory and practice may vary in different historical periods, not least in terms of the emphasis given to the contribution of different scholars and schools of thought in the evolution of accounting theory. This article concentrates on the Italian tradition of accounting from the time of Paciolo, and on how Italian accounting historiography has depicted the evolution of this tradition; it critically questions the periodization generally adopted, the interpretations made of the relative roles played by non-Italians and Italians in the evolution of accounting ideas down to the mid nineteenth century, and the ways in which the contributions of more recent authors and schools of thought have been variously evaluated. It suggests that the emergence of national idiosyncrasies in accounting historiography may be seen as part of a wider process of institutionalization, and the creation of modern disciplinary identities and practices.

Keywords: accounting history, accounting traditions, comparative international accounting

JEL Classification: M10, M20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zan, Luca, Toward a History of Accounting Histories. European Accounting Review Vol. 3, No. 2, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1094272
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies