Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Growth of Accounting Research in Ethics Journals: A 45-Year Longitudinal Study

Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 11, pp. 47-62, 2007

Posted: 19 Feb 2008

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

David F. Bean

Independent

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to chronicle the increased level of accounting research published in ethics journals over the 45-year period from 1960 through 2004. This is an especially timely piece of research as we celebrate two distinctive events in 2005 - 10th Symposium on Ethics Research in Accounting and 10th volume of Research on Accounting Ethics (hereafter referred to as Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting). While this is a 10th-anniversary year, our heritage in ethics research dates back to the first accounting scholar published in Business & Society in 1969. The following period witnessed a dramatic increase in the level of research published in ethics journals by accounting doctorates. The data indicate that both the publication of Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting and our annual Ethics Symposium have increased the level of published ethics research in accounting.

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Bean, David F., The Growth of Accounting Research in Ethics Journals: A 45-Year Longitudinal Study. Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 11, pp. 47-62, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1095066
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,912
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies