Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Quality Ratings of Accounting Journals Omitted in Prior Research

Advances in Accounting Education, Vol. 7, pp. 109-127, 2005

Posted: 19 Feb 2008

David F. Bean

Independent

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Abstract

Many articles rate the journal publication quality of individuals, departments, PhD programs, and universities. A concern common to most recent surveys and studies of accounting journals is that only about one-third of the accounting journals in Cabell ((2004). Cabell's directory of publishing opportunities in account. (9th ed.). Beaumount, TX: Cabell Publishing.) appear in the resultant journal quality ratings. We address this void by developing an objective model that generates a quality rating for journals that are not present in prior surveys. We examine nine articles that report journal quality ratings during the 30-year period between 1974 and 2003 and represent the perceptions of 3,228 colleagues concerning the quality of accounting journals. Our parsimonious model proposes that a journal's quality rating is a function of the age, acceptance rate, and classification of the journal as academic or professional. The model is particularly useful in approximating the quality of journal publications for accounting faculty seeking tenure/promotion and/or for institutions working toward The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation.

Suggested Citation:

Bean, David F. and Bernardi, Richard A., Estimating the Quality Ratings of Accounting Journals Omitted in Prior Research. Advances in Accounting Education, Vol. 7, pp. 109-127, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1095107
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies