Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Certification in Russia

18 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2008

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2008

Abstract

Ever since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the implosion of the Soviet Union, centrally planned economies in Eastern and Central Europe and Central Asia have been struggling to convert their economic systems from central planning to the market. One facet of this transition is accounting certification. Under the old Soviet system there was not much need for accounting certification because Soviet accounting resembled bookkeeping more than the developed accounting systems used in advanced market economies. After the transition began, accounting certifications began to emerge but their quality was questionable, at best. It was possible to purchase accounting certification, which destroyed credibility. A few years ago the United States Agency for International Development started implementing accounting education and certification programs in some of the former Soviet republics. This paper reports on the progress that has been made in the area of accounting certification in Russia.

Keywords: accounting, certification, Russia, CIPA, USAID, transition economy

JEL Classification: P21, O52, M40, M49, F35, I20, J44, L84

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Accounting Certification in Russia (February 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1097654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1097654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). www.accaglobal.com
Crossref
John Bonin
Banking in Transition Economies: Developing Market Oriented Banking Sectors in Eastern Europe Posted: 1998
Stijn Claessens , Simeon Djankov , Daniela Klingebiel
Stock Markets in Transition Economies
Financial Sector Discussion Paper No. 5 Pages: 32 Posted: 1 Sep 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adolf J H Enthoven , V Yaroslav , Svetlana M Sokolov , Valery V Bychkova , Maria V Kovalev , Semenova
Accounting, Auditing and Taxation in the Russian Federation. A joint publication of the IMA Foundation for Applied Research, an affiliate of the Institute of Management Accountants Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
307,614
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Brazil

By Robert W. Mcgee

Insider Trading Regulation in Transition Economies

By Robert W. Mcgee

Timeliness of Financial Reporting in the Russian Energy Sector

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies