Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of a New Standard Financial Accounting in Public Hospitals of the Ministry of Public Health, Thailand

13 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2008

Phusit Prakongsai

International Health Policy Program (IHPP) - Thailand; International Health Policy Program (IHPP)

Amornratana Peerapol

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Niphon Chinanonwaid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kwanpracha Chiangchaisakulthai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sukit Puengketsoonthorn

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sommanous Na-Bangchang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tawekiat Boonyapaisarncharoen

Ministry of Public Health, Thailand

Date Written: February 8, 2008

Abstract

After implementation of the policy on universal coverage (UC) in access to health care in 2001, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) has a pivotal role in providing qualified health services to the entire population of Thailand. The UC scheme financed by general tax employs close-ended provider payment methods, namely capitation contracting model for ambulatory care and Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) with global budget for hospitalization, to pay health care providers. Due to the scale of the UC scheme which covers approximately 47 million of population, public health care providers are under pressure to improve their performance and efficiency through limited resources of the new health financing arrangements. To ensure adequacy in health resources for providing health services and maintaining the quality of health care, MOPH needs timely information about financial accounting data to monitor financial status of all public health facilities and assess the impact of such health financing reform on public health care providers.

Objectives of this report:

1. To report the development of a new accounting and financial reporting system for public hospitals in Thailand through a formation of a new standard chart of accounts; 2. To arrange timely information about financial accounting data of public health facilities in Thailand for monitoring and evaluation, and administrative purposes at provincial and national levels; 3. To create financial and accounting data for research on health care finance and unit cost analyses.

Keywords: financial accounting, chart of accounts, financial indicator, chief financial officer

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M47, M48, I18

Suggested Citation:

Prakongsai, Phusit and Prakongsai, Phusit and Peerapol, Amornratana and Chinanonwaid, Niphon and Chiangchaisakulthai, Kwanpracha and Puengketsoonthorn, Sukit and Na-Bangchang, Sommanous and Boonyapaisarncharoen, Tawekiat, Implementation of a New Standard Financial Accounting in Public Hospitals of the Ministry of Public Health, Thailand (February 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1103525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1103525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Si Ying Tan , GJ Melendez-Torres , Tikki Pang
Implementation of provider payment system reforms in the age of universal health coverage: a realist review of evidence from Asian developing countries
Journal of Health Services Research & Policy , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 279 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,773
RANK
213,875
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Care Delivery & Financing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies