Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Public Accounting in Romania in the Post-Communist Period

14 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2008

Nistor Cristina Silvia

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Filip Crina

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Since we can safely say about Romania that it had to go through a long process of transformation until the European Union member state stage, we can also state that the Romanian public accounting system has suffered multiple changes in order to match the level of the European accounting system, based, especially, on the accruals basis of accounting, supported by the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).

This transition hasn't been easy because we identify at least three periods of time in the evolution of the public accounting system after 1989, the year of the Romanian Revolution identified with the end of communism and the beginning of the capitalist era: as a starting point we have the public accounting system specific to the communist period, at least in what concerns the theoretical and legislative substantiation, which we cannot say that it ended in 1989 but which has continued until 2001; the interval 2002-2005 which marked the beginning of the public accounting transition from the cash basis system towards the accrual basis system; the interval 2006-present which acknowledges the accruals basis of accounting system as an accounting organizational system.

The purpose of this paper is to analyze this evolution, segmented on the three defining intervals in order to get acquainted with what the public accounting system has been, how it has transformed itself, what modifications it has undergone, and what level it attained today.

Keywords: public accounting, post communist history, Romania

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M44, M47, M48, H80, O52, P20

Suggested Citation:

Cristina Silvia, Nistor and Crina, Filip, The Evolution of Public Accounting in Romania in the Post-Communist Period (2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1107774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1107774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A D Barton
Public and Private Sector Accounting: The Non-Identical Twins
Australian Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 89 Posted: 1999
Crossref
G Bistriceanu
Finante generale , volume 1 , p. 236 - 237 Posted: 1992
M Bromwich , I Lapsley
Decentralization and Management Accounting in Central Government: Recycling Old Idea
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 201 Posted: 1997
Crossref
I Brusca , V Condor
Towards the Harmonization of Local Accounting Systems in the International Context
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 145 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,756
RANK
135,862
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies