Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Founding, Strategic Renewal and the Role of Accounting: Management Accounting Concepts in the Formation of the 'Penny Post'

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2008

Alan J. Richardson

University of Windsor - Odette School of Business

Abstract

Organizational strategies, processes and procedures may become institutionalized during the early history of an organization leading to dysfunctional rigidities when the environment changes. The postal system worldwide is under significant pressure to change its business model, including rescinding the provision of universal service and uniform pricing, as the posts are privatized and opened to competition. Cost accounting has become a key mechanism to achieve reform in the postal system. But is the introduction of a cost-based logic new to the design of post office reforms? Were the core policies of the post office originally developed without reference to cost? This paper analyzes the key document in the creation of the current postal business model - Rowland Hill's (1837) "Post Office Reform: Its importance and practicability." The pamphlet shows a basic understanding of economic concepts including the elasticity of demand and opportunity costs as well as implementing practical accounting techniques that we now call value chain analysis, cost behaviour analysis, activity based costing and activity based management, and target costing. This paper provides an analysis of Hill's logic from the perspective of current management accounting techniques and terminology. It illustrates the use of management accounting in the reformation of social institutions and provides a rare example of the early decision-making use of management accounting concepts.

Keywords: strategic renewal, Penny Post, Rowland Hill, post office reform

JEL Classification: K23, L86, M41

Suggested Citation:

Richardson, Alan J., Organizational Founding, Strategic Renewal and the Role of Accounting: Management Accounting Concepts in the Formation of the 'Penny Post'. Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1114853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,119
RANK
123,650
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Reforming the Posts: Abandoning the Monopoly-Supported Postal Universal Service Obligation in Developing Countries

By Charles Kenny

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies