Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elections and Discretionary Accruals: Evidence from 2004

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-103

51 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2008 Last revised: 1 Jan 2010

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Sugata Roychowdhury

Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: December 15, 2009

Abstract

We examine the accrual choices of outsourcing firms with links to US congressional candidates during the 2004 elections, when corporate outsourcing was a major campaign issue. We find that politically-connected firms with more extensive outsourcing activities have more income-decreasing discretionary accruals. Further, relative to adjacent periods, the evidence is concentrated in the two calendar quarters immediately preceding the 2004 election, consistent with heightened incentives for firms to manage earnings during the election season. The incentives can be attributed to donor firms' concerns about the potentially negative consequences of scrutiny over outsourcing for themselves and for their affiliated candidates.

Keywords: accounting information, accruals management, campaign contributions, discretionary accruals, earnings management, election outcomes, political currency, political economy, political process

JEL Classification: D72, M41, M43, M44, M49, P16

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Karthik and Roychowdhury, Sugata, Elections and Discretionary Accruals: Evidence from 2004 (December 15, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-103, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1114925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R Watts , J Zimmerman
Towards a Positive Theory of the Determination of Accounting Standards
The Accounting Review , volume 53 , p. 112 - 134 Posted: 1978
R Watts , J Zimmerman
Positive Accounting Theory Posted: 1986
Time-series of raw "outsourc" count , volume 6
of outsourcing-related press articles for the sample of 283 donor firms in each two-quarter period from MID-2003 to MID-2005. Raw "outsourc" count represents the number of press mentions of the firm's name and the word stem "outsourc
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,530
RANK
74,554
6 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies