Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financing, Accounting and Accountability in Colonial New Zealand: The Nelson School Society (1842-1852)

Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Carolyn Fowler

Victoria University of Wellington

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

There is little knowledge about financing and accounting activities within the early colonial New Zealand settlements. This paper investigates the financing, accounting, and accountability practices instituted by Nelson settlers between 1842 and 1852, when setting up education for the children of the settlement. This archival-based history provides insights into these practices by using the Nelson School Society (NSS), a nineteenth century social institution, as a case study. The surviving archival evidence allows us to make tentative conclusions about accounting and financing practices in colonial Nelson. Firstly, the Nelson settlers provided the capital and revenue required to establish schools and operate them. This capital was provided by community donations and subscriptions while revenue was in the form of pupil fees. The institution was accountable to the capital providers and other stakeholders within the community through annual public meetings, published reports and public examinations. Later, due to expansion, application was made to the Government for help in defraying continuing losses. This could be seen as desire for public funding of what might still, at that time, be considered private benefits. Additionally, the expansion from a single site to a geographically dispersed multisite operation necessitated the implementation of governance arrangements. Each of the multisite operations had little centralised control but were accountable to the general management committee of the NSS. The accounting records appear to have been kept mainly to record the money owing to the treasurer and to demonstrate to potential funding providers the need for more money to cover this debt and expand the NSS. These accounts from 1846 were examined or audited and balanced. Overall this archival history suggests that early settlers in colonial Nelson had a good grasp of and applied financing, accounting, governance and accountability concepts and practices that are commonly found today.

Keywords: Accounting History, Nelson Settlement, Nineteenth Century New Zealand

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M47, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fowler, Carolyn, Financing, Accounting and Accountability in Colonial New Zealand: The Nelson School Society (1842-1852) (2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1115117
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies