Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

57 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2008

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2008

Abstract

This essay describes implications of the subprime crisis for accounting. First, I overview the institutional and market aspects of subprime mortgages and other positions, focusing on those with the greatest relevance for accounting. I explain how the investment performance of subprime-mortgage-related positions has a binary quality that depends on subprime mortgagors' ability to obtain cash-out refinancing. I describe how the subprime crisis evolved in four waves that roped in more positions and affected those positions more severely over time. Second, I discuss the critical aspects of FAS 157's definition of fair value and guidance for fair value measurements. I explain the practical difficulties that have arisen in applying that definition and guidance to subprime positions in the current illiquid markets. I also raise a potential issue regarding the application of FAS 159's fair value option. Third, I discuss issues that have arisen regarding sale accounting for subprime mortgage securitizations under FAS 140 and consolidation of securitization entities under FIN 46(R) associated with foreclosures and modifications of mortgages. Fourth, I indicate ways that accounting academics can address the implications of the subprime crisis in their research and teaching.

Keywords: Subprime crisis, credit crunch, fair value accounting, securitization

JEL Classification: G21, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Ryan, Stephen G., Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis (March 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1115323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1115323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
SOP 94-6, Disclosure of Certain Significant Risks and Uncertainties Posted: 1994
_____
SOP 01-6, Accounting by Certain Entities (Including Entities with Trade Receivables) that Lend to or Finance the Activities of Others Posted: 2001
Statement of Principles, Recommendations and Guidelines for the Modification of Securitized Subprime Residential Mortgage Loans Posted: 2007-06
N Barnes
Nothing Sub-Prime about Those Profits
Business Week Posted: 1995-09-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
33,148
RANK
2,250
44 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

The Crisis of Fair Value Accounting: Making Sense of the Recent Debate

By Christian Laux and Christian Leuz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies