Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC's Global Accounting Vision: A Realistic Appraisal of a Quixotic Quest

North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 87, 2008

GWU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 401

GWU Law School Public Law Research Paper No. 401

61 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2008

Lawrence A. Cunningham

University of Delaware; George Washington University - Law School

Abstract

In the most revolutionary securities law development since the New Deal, the SEC is poised to jettison rules requiring companies to apply recognized US accounting standards by inviting use of a new set of international ones created by a private London-based organization. This radical shift follows decades of gradual movement towards international standards that has gained momentum since 2005 when all listed companies in the European Union were required to use them. For the US, the SEC could give companies the option to use either or establish a medium-term plan to move US companies to international standards within a decade.

Analysis of the SEC's vision for this quest reveals that it contains contradictions, paradoxes and ironies that suggest quixotic thinking. A contradiction: the SEC touts its vision as promoting comparability, yet proposes injecting choice and competition into accounting standards that would reduce it. A paradox: the SEC celebrates a single set of global standards while advocating changes that would create a double set within the US and overlooks factors that justify skepticism about the possibility of a single set of written standards translating into uniform application. An irony: the SEC acknowledges that pursuing global standards is very complex while its Chairman says the SEC has declared a war on complexity in accounting.

A more realistic vision of the quest appreciates that, under either an optional or mandatory route, the shift amounts to a leap of faith posing both large costs for the US and potentially large gains for it and the world. This realistic appraisal lowers expectations about actual comparability; highlights serious risks that competing standards would impair comparability; recognizes needs the SEC has scantly examined to render elaborate infrastructural changes; and, above all, faces the realization that the abrupt shift is less about the SEC's historical mandate to protect investors than about a newly undertaken mission to expand global capitalism.

Keywords: IFRS, SEC, IASB, FASB, principles-based, rules-based, regulatory competition, comparative corporate governance, corporate finance, international financial regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G38

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lawrence A., The SEC's Global Accounting Vision: A Realistic Appraisal of a Quixotic Quest. North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 87, 2008, GWU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 401, GWU Law School Public Law Research Paper No. 401, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1118377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Samuel Wolff
Implementation of International Disclosure Standards, 22 U
PA. J. INT'L ECON
C Isaac , Hunt
It's a Small World After All: The SEC's Role in Securities Regulation Globalization Posted: 1999
Janice Grant Brunner
All Together Now? The Quest for International Accounting Standards, 20 U
PA. J. INT'L ECON. L Posted: 1999
B Scott , Novak , Note , Step
The Move for International Accounting Standards, 9 IND. INT'L & COMP. L. REV Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,203
RANK
136,584
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

George Washington University Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

George Washington University Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Coping in a Global Marketplace: Survival Strategies for a 75-Year-Old SEC

By James D. Cox

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies