Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Familiarity with and Perceived Quality of Accounting Journals: Views of Senior Accounting Faculty in Leading U. S. MBA Programs

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 11, No. 1, 1994

29 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Ronald J. Huefner

State University of New York (SUNY) - UB Foundations Activities Inc. School of Management

Abstract

Determining familiarity with and evaluating quality of accounting journals are of interest to various parties in accounting academia. In recent years, the number of accounting journals has grown, and many special-interest subgroups have arisen. A study surveys senior faculty at Business Week's best 40 MBA programs to determine their familiarity with and quality perceptions of 44 accounting journals. As to familiarity, 5 journals were nearly universally known, and a total of 15 had wide recognition. Financial, managerial, and auditing faculty exhibited similar familiarity patterns, while tax faculty had a somewhat different pattern. As to quality perceptions, relatively few journals achieved high quality evaluations. There was, however, general consensus across the different subject area faculty as to the top journals. Special consideration was given to the new (post-1980) journals. Six of the 19 newer journals in the study achieved high familiarity scores, and 3 achieved high quality evaluations.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D. and Huefner, Ronald J., The Familiarity with and Perceived Quality of Accounting Journals: Views of Senior Accounting Faculty in Leading U. S. MBA Programs. Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 11, No. 1, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1118954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Ji Wu , Qian Hao , Michelle Y.M. Yao
Rankings of Academic Journals in Accounting, Finance, and Information System Perception from the College Chairpersons
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management, Vol. 17, No. 1, pp. 66-105, 2009 · 40 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2010 · Downloads: 1,791
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,385
RANK
291,291
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Faculty Perceptions and Readership Patterns of Accounting Journals: A Global View

By Apostolos Ballas and Vasilis Theoharakis

A New Method for Ranking Academic Journals in Accounting and Finance

By Vivien A. Beattie and Alan Goodacre

A Study of Accounting Faculty Publishing Productivity in New Zealand

By Chris H. Durden and Brett R. Wilkinson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies