Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influential Accounting Articles, Individuals, Ph.D. Granting Institutions and Faculties: A Citational Analysis

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 21, No. 7/8, 1996

32 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2008 Last revised: 13 Apr 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 1996

Abstract

This study utilizes the Accounting Research Directory to identify influential articles and individuals. Influence is defined in terms of cites per year by five leading accounting journals. The top 100 articles are identified, and the 26 papers defined as classics am content analyzed to determine the contextual framework in which citation takes place. The 123 individuals whose body of work constitutes a classic (i.e. cited at least four times per year since year of publication) are identified, and these data are used to rank individuals, Ph.D. granting institutions and faculties.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D., Influential Accounting Articles, Individuals, Ph.D. Granting Institutions and Faculties: A Citational Analysis (1996). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 21, No. 7/8, 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1118041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
E Fama
Efficient Capital Markets: A Review of Theory and Empirical Work
The Journal of Finance , p. 383 - 417 Posted: 1970-05
Crossref
E Fama , L Fisher , M C Jensen , R Roll
The Adjustment of Stock Prices to New Information
Intewratfonal Economic Review , p. 1 - 21
Crossref
T J Fogarty
A Ranking to End All Rankings: A Meta-Analysis and Critique of Studies Ranking Academic Accounting Departments, Accounring Perspecffves , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 1995
G Foster
Quarterly Accounting Data: Tie-Series Properties and Predictive-Ability Results
The AccounNng Review , p. 201 - 232 Posted: 1977-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,208
RANK
149,881
7 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Ranking Journals Using Social Science Research Network Downloads

By Lawrence D. Brown

Doubly Disadvantaged or an Exception to the Rules? Minority Women in Accounting Academia

By Margaret Lightbody, Amelia A. Baldwin, ...

Mainstreams, Monsters and Global Accounting

By Fabrizio Panozzo

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies