Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attributes of Articles Impacting Contemporary Accounting Literature

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, 1989

24 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

John C. Gardner

University of New Orleans - Department of Accounting

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Abstract

This paper describes and analyzes four attribute dimensions that have impacted contemporary accounting literature (CAL) between 1976 and 1984, and develops a model that predicts attribute levels in 1985 and 1986. The attribute dimensions studied are: accounting area, research method, school of thought, and geographical focus. Publication counts and citation analyses are performed on a data set of 1,110 accounting articles. The results suggest that linear trends exist over time in the publication and citation measures of selected attributes of accounting papers; that new or emerging attribute areas are more likely to be influential than are papers published in established areas; and that it is easier to predict the relative influence of publications that will exhibit certain attributes than it is to predict the number of papers that will be published with these attributes.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D. and Gardner, John C. and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Attributes of Articles Impacting Contemporary Accounting Literature. Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, 1989, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1121405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,577
RANK
627,303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies