Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has the Importance of Intangibles Really Grown? And if so, Why?

International Accounting Policy Forum, Special Issue, 2008

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2008

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Intangibles are ideas or knowledge about the natural (physical and biological) and socio-cultural worlds that enable people to better accomplish their goals, both in primitive societies and in modern economies. Intangibles include basic research and technology improvements as well as knowledge to better organize exchange and production, and over time become inextricably embedded in improved tangible assets. Accounting intangibles are legally excludable subsets of economic intangibles, which in turn are the subsets of cultural intangibles that can be used to create tradable goods or services. Because economic intangibles are cumulative, synergistic, and frequently inseparable from other tangible assets and/or economic intangibles not owned by any single entity, it is usually futile to estimate a separate accounting value for individual intangibles. However, the income that intangibles together generate provides useful inputs for equity valuation, and voluntary non-financial disclosures could be informative for this purpose.

Keywords: Moka, gift exchange, patent, trademark, fair value

JEL Classification: D20, D45, D83, K10, L15, L51, M41, M44, M45, O30

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Waymire, Gregory B., Has the Importance of Intangibles Really Grown? And if so, Why?. International Accounting Policy Forum, Special Issue, 2008, Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1124522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
150 References
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, Evolution and Economic Theory
Journal of Political Economy , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
Crossref
D Andolfatto , G M Macdonald
Technology Diffusion and Aggregate Dynamics
Review of Economic Dynamics , volume 1 , p. 338 - 370 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Appenzeller
Evolution or revolution?
Science , volume 282 , issue 5393 , p. 1451 - 1454 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P Bairoch
Cities and Economic Development, trans. C. Braider Posted: 1988
Load more
2 Citations
Anne Jeny , Rucsandra Moldovan
Accounting for Intangible Assets—Insights from Meta-Analysis of R&D Research
57 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 13 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 638
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard Barker , Andrew Lennard , Stephen H. Penman , Alan Teixeira
Accounting for Intangible Assets: Suggested Solutions
37 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 574
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
863
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,846
RANK
64,232
2 Citations
150 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accounting is an Evolved Economic Institution

By Gregory B. Waymire and Sudipta Basu

Sprouse’s What-You-May-Call-Its: Fundamental Insight or Monumental Mistake?

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Economic Crisis and Accounting Evolution

By Gregory B. Waymire and Sudipta Basu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies