Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) an Unstoppable Juggernaut for US and Global Financial Reporting?

The Business Review, Cambridge, Vol. 10, No. 1, Summer 2008

7 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2008 Last revised: 14 Mar 2010

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

Importance of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has greatly increased in recent years. Pivotal events include acceptance of IFRS for financial reporting in the European Union in 2005 and the US Securities and Exchange Commission's announcement in late 2007 to accept IFRS for financial reporting by non-US firms trading in US markets. How far away is worldwide acceptance of IFRS for financial reporting? To answer this question, this study offers a review of recent events, including a longitudinal analysis of adoption of IFRS by the countries of the world. In addition, perspectives regarding acceptance of IFRS, from top corporate accounting officers, are acquired and evaluated. Findings indicate that IFRS are increasingly accepted around the world and that top accounting officers are very favorable to adoption of IFRS worldwide. Based on these findings, acceptance of IFRS in virtually all countries, including the US, appears imminent, perhaps occurring within the next few years.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, international accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, F23

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy, Are International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) an Unstoppable Juggernaut for US and Global Financial Reporting?. The Business Review, Cambridge, Vol. 10, No. 1, Summer 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1125069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Murphy Smith , Michael S. Drake , Mike Shaub
Pivotal Change in US Public Policy: How the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Affected Internal Auditing and its Relationship to External Auditing
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, 2009 · 41 Pages · Posted: 18 Sep 2009 · Downloads: 592
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,278
RANK
16,628
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies