Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2007

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 8, 2008

167 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2008

Martin J. McMahon, Jr.

University of Florida - Levin College of Law

Ira B. Shepard

University of Houston Law Center

Daniel L. Simmons

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

This recent developments outline discusses, and provides context to understand the significance of, the most important judicial decisions and administrative rulings and regulations promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Department during 2007 - and sometimes a little farther back in time if we find the item particularly humorous or outrageous. Most Treasury Regulations, however, are so complex that they cannot be discussed in detail and, anyway, only a devout masochist would read them all the way through; just the basic topic and fundamental principles are highlighted. Amendments to the Internal Revenue Code generally are not discussed except to the extent that (1) they are of major significance, (2) they have led to administrative rulings and regulations, (3) they have affected previously issued rulings and regulations otherwise covered by the outline. The outline focuses primarily on topics of broad general interest (to the three of us, at least) - income tax accounting rules, determination of gross income, allowable deductions, treatment of capital gains and losses, corporate and partnership taxation, exempt organizations, and procedure and penalties. It deals summarily with qualified pension and profit sharing plans, and generally does not deal with international taxation or specialized industries, such as banking, insurance, and financial services.

Keywords: Federal Income Taxation, Corporate Taxation, Tax Procedure

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

McMahon, Jr., Martin James and Shepard, Ira B. and Simmons, Daniel L., Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2007 (2008). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 8, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1126815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Judge Ruwe) determined that the timely-mailing/timely-filing provisions of § 7502 would apply to a motion for leave to file a motion to vacate an order of dismissal for lack of jurisdiction, so the Tax Court's earlier decision would not become final after the 90-day period for appeal had elapsed under § 7481(a) Posted: 1997
Judge Haines therefore found that the Kanter-related entities were shams, that "Kanter, Ballard, and Lisle participated in a complex, well-disguised scheme to share kickback payments earned jointly by Kanter, Ballard, and Lisle," and that they earned income during the years at issue which they failed to report. • Judge Haines found that -based upon factors such as (1) failure to report substantial amounts of income
adhere strictly hereafter to the amended Tax Court Rule in finalizing Tax Court opinions. i. On remand
) false and misleading documents, and (8) failure to cooperate during the examination process by engaging in a "strategy of obfuscation and delay" -the Commissioner demonstrated by "clear and convincing evidence" that Kanter and Ballard filed false and fraudulent tax returns for each of the years at issue. • Judge Haines held that the Tax Court is "obliged to review the recommended findings of fact and credibility determinations set forth in the STJ report under a 'manifestly unreasonable' standard of review, and ... may reject such findings of fact and credibility determinations only if, after reviewing the record in its entirety, [it] conclude[s] that the recommended finding of fact or testimony (1) is internally inconsistent or so implausible that a reasonable fact finder would not believe it, or (2) is not credible because it is directly contradicted by documentary or objective evidence
Kanter's and Ballard's income on IRAs (and another entity's) tax returns, (5) commingling of Kanter's and Ballard's income with funds belonging to others
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
663
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,923
RANK
90,776
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies