Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Boardroom to Courtroom to Newsroom: The Media and the Corporate Governance Scandals

Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 33, p. 625, 2008

Washington U. School of Law Working Paper No. 08-05-01

40 Pages Posted: 27 May 2008

Kathleen F. Brickey

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Abstract

Enron and its progeny spawned an unprecedented amount of press coverage. To its credit the press has, in the main, acquitted itself well. But media coverage of the ensuing investigations and trials also has raised a host of provocative questions about judgment, professionalism and restraint. Using five high-profile criminal trials arising out of recent corporate fraud scandals as a springboard, this article provides a critical analysis of how media coverage - and defendants' efforts to spin that coverage - can influence the course and outcome of a trial. Some, but not all of the mischief originates with the press. Ever conscious of the potential for media coverage to alter the outcome, defendants in high-profile fraud trials have increasingly orchestrated costly multi-media public relations campaigns that demonize prosecutors, witnesses, and the press to exonerate themselves. The five case studies in the article highlight growing points of tension between the media and the courts and provide a concrete context for exploring the extent to which we should be concerned about the potential for aggressive media coverage and media manipulation to undermine the legitimacy of the courts, to affect the outcome of lengthy criminal trials, to play on the passions of the community from which the jury will be drawn, to subvert journalistic credibility and independence, and to invite more restrictive court-imposed rules governing media coverage of high-profile trials. The article concludes that if the press is to effectively perform its watchdog role, it should be mindful of the need to watch itself. Three appendices at the end of the article provide a media-centric postscript on coverage of the corporate governance scandals.

Keywords: Kozlowski, Martha Stewart, Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, Scrushy, Tyco, ImClone, Enron, HealthSouth, jury, mistrial, press, media, race, religion, Arthur Andersen, voir dire, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, fraud, scandals, Internet, website, trial, public relations, corporate governance, courts

Suggested Citation:

Brickey, Kathleen F., From Boardroom to Courtroom to Newsroom: The Media and the Corporate Governance Scandals. Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 33, p. 625, 2008, Washington U. School of Law Working Paper No. 08-05-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1131303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Harper's Magazine also recognized the work of the Wall Street Journal's Rebecca Smith and John Emshwiller and of Fortune magazine's Bethany McLean. Wasik, supra note 178, at 81. 188. A search on Amazon Books for "Enron Posted: 2003
Kurt Eichenwald , Conspiracy Of Fools: A True , Story
Posted: 2005
Crossref
Rebecca Smith &amp; John R , Emshwiller
24 DAYS: HOW TWO WALL STREET JOURNAL REPORTERS UNCOVERED THE LIES THAT DESTROYED FAITH IN CORPORATE AMERICA Posted: 2004
Bethany Mclean &amp; Peter Elkind , The Smartest Guys
THE ROOM: THE RISE AND FALL OF ENRON Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,218
RANK
91,136
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of the Jury in Modern Malpractice Law

By Philip G. Peters Jr.

Substitute Chancellors: The Role of the Jury in the Contest between Common Law and Equity

By Bernadette Meyler

Review of Convictions after Jury Trials: The New French Jury Court of Appeal

By Bron Mckillop

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies