Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tracing the American Concept of Stewardship to English Antecedents

British Accounting Review, Vol. 23, No. 355, 1991

14 Pages Posted: 21 May 2008

Francine J. Lipman

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - William S. Boyd School of Law

James E. Williamson

San Diego State University - College of Business Administration

Abstract

The contemporary American concept of stewardship has been criticized for failing to meet the needs of modern society. Critics say that the concept of stewardship is missing or dead in America. This paper proposes that before we speculate on the demise of stewardship in the not too distant future we consider its historical evolution. This paper uses a cross-national approach to trace the concept of stewardship within its socihistorical context from 13th century England to the modern American corporation. By identifying how stewardship has evolved differently in America than it did in England, the authors conclude that stewardship is alive and viable in America in its own unique form. Questions regarding whether the American concept of stewardship can survive in this form or how it might evolve in the future are left to future research. However, since accounting is stewardship driven researchers looking for a coherent legal/accounting theory of stewardship may find that evolutionary changes in the social and legal concepts of stewardship subsequently lead to changes in accounting theory and procedure.

Keywords: stewardship, corporate goverance, accounting theory, accounting procedures, accounting history

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, N13

Suggested Citation:

Lipman, Francine J. and Williamson, James E., Tracing the American Concept of Stewardship to English Antecedents. British Accounting Review, Vol. 23, No. 355, 1991, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1135865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shamima Haque , Thereza Raquel Sales de Aguiar , Nglaa Ahmad
Financialisation of the UK Stewardship Code: Conceptualising Financial Institutions’ Climate Change Disclosures Through Foucault's Dispositives Analytics
YCPAC-D-24-00310 · 43 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,147
RANK
159,889
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies