Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Five Audits and Accounting Fraud

57 Pages Posted: 27 May 2008

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2008

Abstract

We examine the association between Big Five audits and the incidence of accounting frauds allegedly committed by U.S. public companies between 1981 and 2001. Many commentators argue that the prominent financial reporting failures that led to major corporate governance reforms cast serious doubt on whether the large public accounting firms continue to supply higher-quality audits, especially in recent years. However, in unmatched and industry-size-year matched samples, we provide strong, robust evidence that fraudulent financial reporting becomes less likely with the presence of a Big Five auditor. Importantly, time-series tests suggest that the Big Five are consistently associated with a lower incidence of fraudulent accounting, including in the last five years of our sample period when the number of frauds soared. Moreover, we find evidence implying that these relations are causal rather than an artifact of endogeneity in auditor choice.

Keywords: corporate governance, Big Five audits, agency costs, accounting fraud

JEL Classification: M49, G34, G32, H25

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Big Five Audits and Accounting Fraud (May 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1137829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1137829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Baltagi
Econometric analysis of panel data Posted: 1995
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A A Berle , G C Means
The modern corporation and private property
Brace and World Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,730
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,338
RANK
11,272
69 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies