Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Actual Economic Role of Financial Reporting?

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 22, No. 4, 2008

12 Pages Posted: 28 May 2008 Last revised: 1 Jun 2008

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This short essay is based on a presentation at the panel discussion on Big Unanswered Questions in Accounting at the American Accounting Association Meetings in 2007. It poses the question: what is the actual economic role of financial reporting? and discusses why this question is important, why it is unanswered, and what types of inventive research design are needed to help answer it. Examples are given of the types of questions involved.

Keywords: financial reporting, accounting, research design

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, What is the Actual Economic Role of Financial Reporting?. Accounting Horizons, Vol. 22, No. 4, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1138218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Bharath , T Sreedhar , Jayanthi Sunder , Shyam V Sunder
Accounting quality and debt contracting
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R L Watts , J L Zimmerman
Positive accounting theory Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
844
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,582
RANK
8,187
1 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies