Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Certification in Central Asia: An Empirical Study

17 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2008

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 2008

Abstract

After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the 15 former Soviet republics all started converting their inherited Soviet bookkeeping system to a market-oriented accounting system. They encountered several problems along the way. No one knew what a market oriented accounting system was all about. There were no books either in Russian or in any of the national languages on which might be termed western accounting, which made it difficult to learn the new system.

Terminology was often a problem. As books began to be translated into Russian it became apparent that there were terminology problems. Russian words simply did not exist for many English terms. Perhaps the most interesting word that does not exist in the Russian language is accountant. They use the German word for bookkeeper. The Soviet mentality also considered accounting to be no more than bookkeeping.

There was a certain logic for equating the two terms. In the Soviet era, accounting consisted mostly of bookkeeping. There was a chart of accounts that came out of Moscow in 1930 and it was adopted in all 15 Soviet republics. University students who studied bookkeeping took a course in bookkeeping that did not go beyond making journal entries. There was no such thing as financial statement analysis. Cost accounting was practically nonexistent. All prices are set centrally and have little or nothing to do with supply and demand. Calculating profit margins under such conditions becomes a meaningless exercise.

It eventually became apparent that the recently privatized businesses had to convert to some internationally recognized accounting system. In most cases that system was International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Any business that wanted to attract badly needed international capital had to be able to present financial statements that were based on an accounting system that could be understood and trusted internationally.

But the companies that wanted to attract foreign investment were mostly the large companies. Small companies saw no need to adopt IFRS, since the old Soviet bookkeeping system seemed good enough for their purposes.

Furthermore, national tax officials had no use for IFRS, since their tax systems were usually based on the cash method.

Where there is no demand, there will be no supply. So there was not much grass roots support for changing to a system that was internationally recognized.

Demand eventually began to increase as international investors and bankers demanded financial statements that used either IFRS or U.S. GAAP and many of them demanded annual audits conducted by the Big-4 accounting firms.

Keywords: accounting, certification, Central Asia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,Uzbekistan, ACCA, CIPA, IFRS, gender,transition economy

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G30, I2, J16, J44, L84, M4, O53, O57,P31

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Accounting Certification in Central Asia: An Empirical Study (May 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1141898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1141898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Chart 14 graphs the pass rates for Uzbekistan. The pass rate was abnormally high in the first year, then declined predictably in each of the next two years before starting to rise again
Chart 15 shows the female participation rates for Uzbekistan. The rate started rather strong, then declined in subsequent years. Female participation in the two most recent years has been less than 50 percent
% Female Participation -Uzbekistan
The chart shows the extent of the increase or decline for each republic and also makes it possible to compare the relative volume of activity between or among the republics. Kazakhstan has continued to have the largest volume of activity and its activity has risen substantially between
Chart 16 shows the parts taken in 2003 and 2007 for each of the five Central Asian republics Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,307
RANK
282,998
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies