Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving Toward a Federal Law of Corporate Governance in Bankruptcy

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No.

Southern Illinois University Law Journal, Vol. 31, 2007

19 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2009

Kelli Alces Williams

Florida State University - College of Law

Abstract

State law control over the corporate governance of publicly held corporations is dying a slow death in bankruptcy at the hands of an overzealous Congress. Recent amendments to the Bankruptcy Code (the Code) push the state fiduciary law that governs the behavior of corporate directors and officers closer to irrelevance by making federal securities laws the strongly preferred means to find and hold accountable rogue managers of bankrupt corporations. This change in the corporate law began outside of bankruptcy. In the wake of the corporate scandals that erupted in the early 2000's, Congress adopted the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley), which includes the most extensive and detailed corporate governance provisions enacted by Congress to date. In doing so, Congress acted on the belief that state law had failed to deter, prevent, and provide accountability for such business disasters and sought to provide federal legislation to insure that the Enron catastrophe, and those like it, would never occur again. By amending the Code with the same policy goals in mind, Congress not only adopted legislation that governs, more carefully than ever, the internal affairs of a corporation, but has paved the way for those regulations to remain forceful and relevant even after a bankruptcy case has been filed. The latest additions did not similarly provide for the effective application of state law corporate governance mechanisms.

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Kelli Alces, Moving Toward a Federal Law of Corporate Governance in Bankruptcy. FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. , Southern Illinois University Law Journal, Vol. 31, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1146603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,694
RANK
427,404
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies