Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Design and Implementation Issues in Swedish Individual Pension Accounts

CRR Working Paper 2005-05

49 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2008

Kent Weaver

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Date Written: April 2005

Abstract

Sweden's new multi-pillar pension system includes a system of mandatory fully-funded individual accounts. The Swedish system tries to keep administrative costs down through centralized management of the collection of contributions, switching among fund options, and record-keeping and communication with account holders.

The Swedish system offers contributors more than 600 fund options. However, in the most recent rounds of fund choice, more than 90 percent of new labor market entrants have not made an active choice of funds, and thus have ended up in a government-sponsored default fund.

The Swedish system of individual accounts offers a number of lessons for countries considering adoption of a mandatory individual account tier. First, centralized administration of record-keeping, communication and trading functions can help to keep administrative costs down. Second, the lead time needed to set up such a system is considerable. Third, if entry barriers for funds are low, a very large number of fund options are likely to be offered. Fourth, engaging new labor market entrants in fund choice is likely to be difficult, and these barriers are likely to be particularly high for some groups - notably those with limited incomes and low English language skills. Fifth, in the absence of entry barriers for funds, a significant percentage of those making an active fund choice may choose funds that are very specialized and risky. Finally, the likelihood of limited active fund choice means that special care must be devoted both to the design of a default fund and to communicating to potential participants what asset allocation and risk-return trade-offs the default fund is likely to make.

Suggested Citation:

Weaver, Kent, Design and Implementation Issues in Swedish Individual Pension Accounts (April 2005). CRR Working Paper 2005-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1148967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1148967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
G S Pictet
Compartiment Biotech Pictet Global , volume 1 , p. 7 - 29
Crossref
Carlson Fund Equity American Small Cap Percent Posted: 2001
Asked only of survey respondents who have said that they want the 7 th AP fund to invest for them. Source: Sifo Research and Consulting Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
545,548
5 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Heuristics and Biases in Retirement Savings Behavior

By Shlomo Benartzi and Richard H. Thaler

Company Stock in 401(K) Plans

By Gur Huberman and Paul Sengmueller

Company Stock in Pension Plans: How Costly is it?

By Lisa K. Meulbroek

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies