Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sham Spes, Part I: The Legal Issues of International Accounting Standards on the Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities

International Company and Commercial Law Review, Vol. 17, No. 11, pp. 304-317, November 2006

14 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2008

Dmitry Gololobov

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph Atangan Tanega

University of Westminster, School of Law

Date Written: May 20, 2006

Abstract

The article is part one of a two part series that explores the difficulties that accountancy professional bodies have in attempting to find standard workable definitions of consolidation in the face of the use and abuse of special purpose vehicles. The questions of legitimacy and legality of corporate form are examined in light of recent history of accountancy reform. The authors propose an "anti-sham principle" to help coordinate and effect a benchmark across disperse views on the legitimacy of manipulative valuation and off-balance sheet structures.

Keywords: accounting standards, off-balance sheet, special purpose vehicles, valuation

Suggested Citation:

Gololobov, Dmitry and Tanega, Joseph Atangan, Sham Spes, Part I: The Legal Issues of International Accounting Standards on the Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities (May 20, 2006). International Company and Commercial Law Review, Vol. 17, No. 11, pp. 304-317, November 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1150282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
B J Dharan
available at www.fasb.org; FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities , volume 46 Posted: 2000-06-10
available at www.sec.gov; SEC, Study Pursuant to Section 108(d) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on the Adoption by the United States Financial Reporting System of a PrinciplesBased Accounting System
SEC, Commission Statement about Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Release Nos , volume 3746 Posted: 2002-01-25
When we refer to accounting-motivated structured transactions, we are speaking of those transactions that are structured in an attempt to achieve reporting results that are not consistent with the economics of the transaction, and thereby impair the transparency'': SEC, Report and Recommendations, fn.23 above, at p.22. It is also important to note that: ''The primary accounting issues regarding these [special purpose] entities are (1) whether they should be consolidated into the sponsor's (or primary beneficiary's) financial statements or left ''off-balance sheet
See Hartgraves and Benston, fn.41 above
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,947
RANK
210,914
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies