Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Dot-Com Bubble of the 1990s

37 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2008

John J. Morris

Kansas State University

Pervaiz Alam

Kent State University

Date Written: June 27, 2008

Abstract

During the dot-com bubble of the 1990s, equity market valuation was a popular topic for investors, financial analysts and academics. Some questioned whether traditional accounting and financial information had lost its value relevance, as stocks traded at multiples of earnings well in excess of historic levels, leading Alan Greenspan to caution against irrational exuberance. This study examines the relation between market valuation and traditional accounting information before, during and after the bubble. We document a decline in the relation between market value and traditional accounting information during the bubble period followed by an increase after the collapse of the market in 2000. We also examine alternative explanations to the irrational exuberance theory, including the quality of earnings, and the aggressiveness of financial analysts' forecasts, finding weak support for either alternative.

Keywords: New Economy, Value Relevance, Capital Markets, Equity Valuation, Earnings Quality, Analyst Forecast

JEL Classification: D21, E44, G12

Suggested Citation:

Morris, John J. and Alam, Pervaiz, Analysis of the Dot-Com Bubble of the 1990s (June 27, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1152412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1152412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B Best
Financial statements in the "new economy Posted: 2006-02-21
T S Bharath , S ; S Viswanathan , K Lo , T Lys
Use of R 2 in accounting research: Measuring changes in value relevance over the last four decades
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 83 - 115 Posted: 1999
D Collins , E Maydew , I Weiss
Changes in the value-relevance of earnings and book values over the past forty years
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 39 - 67 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Kichan Nam , Christopher S. Dutt , Prakash Chathoth , M. Sajid Khan
Blockchain technology for smart city and smart tourism: latest trends and challenges
Asia Pacific Journal of Tourism Research , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 454 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Wladimir Schubert , Beáta Gavurová , Viliam Kováč , Martin Užík
Financial Management from an Emerging Market Perspective
Posted: 2018
Crossref
Eren Kırmızıaltın , Duygu Çeri
Psychological Drivers of Herding and Market Overreaction
, p. 23 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jean-Michel Sahut , Denis Schweizer , Marta Peris-Ortiz
Technological forecasting and social change introduction to the VSI technological innovations to ensure confidence in the digital world
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 179 , p. 121680 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13,240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
36,892
RANK
793
9 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Profits, Losses and the Non-Linear Pricing of Internet Stocks

By John R. M. Hand

The Eyeballs Have it: Searching for the Value in Internet Stocks

By Brett Trueman, M.h. Franco Wong, ...

A Rude Awakening: Internet Shakeout in 2000

By Elizabeth Demers and Baruch Lev

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies