Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of IFRS Adoption: A Review of the Early Empirical Evidence

13 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2008 Last revised: 9 Oct 2008

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: October 8, 2008

Abstract

This review documents the conceptual and methodological issues that relate to the domain of financial reporting research that attempts to examine whether there are measurable gains, (if any) stemming from the adoption of international financial reporting standards, (IFRS). It selects and reviews four recent papers from conceptual, research design and policy perspectives. Information content, uncertainty-disclosure, value relevance and earnings and accounting quality studies have all attempted to show the benefits of finer and increased information environments. Notwithstanding the early evidence, this review argues that the papers face both epistemological and research design problems, in that IFRS adoption effect studies do not take cognizance of the contributions of the literatures on financial integration, earnings sustainability and market microstructure.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS, Financial integration (globalization), short term market reaction studies, supply chain financial reporting systems, disclosure, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G14, G15, F15

Suggested Citation:

Negash, Minga, The Effects of IFRS Adoption: A Review of the Early Empirical Evidence (October 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1154504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1154504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
G Akerlof , P Romer
Looting: the economic underworld of bankruptcy
Bookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 2 , p. 1 - 73 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson , B Lauterbach
Market microstructure and securities values: Evidence from the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 45 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolizer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the IFRS adoption in Europe Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The relation among capital market, financial disclosure, production efficiency and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,318
RANK
11,623
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies