Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History Matters: Individual Analysts' Responses to Quarterly Guidance

58 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2008 Last revised: 7 Feb 2009

Mark Bagnoli

Purdue University

Yinghua Li

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Susan G. Watts

Purdue University

Date Written: February 2009

Abstract

We ask whether the history of interactions between a firm and its analysts affects management's quarterly earnings forecast decision and analysts' subsequent earnings estimate revisions. We show that the history of their interactions not only reflects their individual incentives but is also used to form expectations about current decisions. Specifically, guidance is more likely to be pessimistically biased if management has a history of offering pessimistic forecasts and if analysts have tended to respond passively (i.e., by mimicking guidance or revising in the direction indicated by management). Individual analysts are more likely to respond passively to management's current forecast if they have historically responded in such a manner or if management has tended to offer unbiased or accurate guidance. Analysts with superior earnings forecasting track records are less likely to respond passively to guidance that is pessimistically biased. Collectively, our results indicate that downward bias in quarterly guidance and information production by analysts depend on what management and analysts have learned about each other over time as reflected in their forecasting histories.

Keywords: Guidance, earnings warnings, analysts, earnings estimates, analyst forecasts, reputation

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G29, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Bagnoli, Mark E. and Li, Yinghua and Watts, Susan G., History Matters: Individual Analysts' Responses to Quarterly Guidance (February 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1155145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1155145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Gleason , C Lee
Analyst Forecast Revisions and Market Price Discovery
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J M Hassell , R Jennings
Relative Forecast Accuracy and the Timing of Earnings Forecast Announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 75 Posted: 1986
J Hassell , R Jennings , D Lasser
Management Earnings Forecasts: Their Usefulness as a Source of Firm-specific Information to Security Analysts
The Journal of Financial Research , volume 11 , p. 303 - 320 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D E Hirst , L Koonce , J Miller
The Joint Effect of Management's Prior Forecast Accuracy and the Form of Its Financial Forecasts on Investor Judgment
Studies on Credible Financial Reporting , volume 37 , p. 101 - 124 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Lawrence D. Brown , Ling Zhou
Interactions between Analyst Earnings Forecasts and Management Earnings Forecasts
38 Pages · Posted: 9 Feb 2012 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2014 · Downloads: 368
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lawrence D. Brown , Ling Zhou
Interactions between analysts’ and managers’ earnings forecasts
International Journal of Forecasting , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 501 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Guojin Gong , Yue Li , Ling Zhou
Do management earnings forecasts fully reflect information in past earnings changes?
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 373 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,225
RANK
268,746
3 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies