Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting is an Evolved Economic Institution

Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 1-2, pp. 1-174, 2008

Emory University Law and Economics Research Paper No. 08-33

162 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2008 Last revised: 27 Jan 2009

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 4, 2008

Abstract

We consider accounting from an evolutionary perspective. Accounting encompasses the creation of transactional records, the summarization of records in t-accounts, and the preparation of audited financial statements. Accounting's history spans at least 10,000 years dating back to the first human settlements in ancient Mesopotamia. Our focus is on the study of accounting history in three ways: providing useful thoughts experiments valuable to researchers interested in the development of modern practices, the use of historical data to test formal hypotheses about the origins of accounting practices, and the development of theories and related empirical evidence that explain accounting based on evolution and ecological rationality. Within this third area, we describe the basis for hypotheses and empirical analyses concerning six issues: (1) the emergence of recordkeeping, (2) the effect of double-entry bookkeeping on the scale and scope of economic organization, (3) the spontaneous emergence of norms of practice in accounting, (4) the impact of law, regulation, and taxation on accounting, (5) the demand for broad principles in evaluating accounting method choices, and (6) the relation between economic crises and major discontinuities in accounting practice.

Keywords: Accounting, Economic History, Economic Institutions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M46, M49, N00, N20

Suggested Citation:

Waymire, Gregory B. and Basu, Sudipta, Accounting is an Evolved Economic Institution (July 4, 2008). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 1-2, pp. 1-174, 2008, Emory University Law and Economics Research Paper No. 08-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1155420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
476 References
C: Accounting Classics Bliss , J
Financial and Operating Ratios in Management. Bliss provides a comprehensive early treatment of ratio analysis. Data on the ratios of a large sample of major firms for about a decade is also provided Posted: 1923
J Canning
The Economics of Accountancy. This book is likely the first serious attempt by Posted: 1929
R Chambers
This book provides the basis of Chambers' assertion that exit values on balance sheets provide a superior basis for accounting than historical costs Posted: 1966
J M Clark
Studies in the Economics of Overhead Costs. This book is the first deep analysis of costs and cost accounting practices in businesses, but also considers use of cost data in managerial decision-making and government Posted: 1923
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,932
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,966
RANK
19,682
10 Citations
476 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Has the Importance of Intangibles Really Grown? And if so, Why?

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Sprouse’s What-You-May-Call-Its: Fundamental Insight or Monumental Mistake?

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Economic Crisis and Accounting Evolution

By Gregory B. Waymire and Sudipta Basu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies