Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Web-Based Corporate Reporting Practices: A Survey

The Icfai University Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 43-58, July 2008

Posted: 8 Jul 2008 Last revised: 30 Sep 2012

Divya Verma Gakhar

Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University

Mahesh Chand Garg

G. J. University of Science and Technology

Date Written: July 8, 2008

Abstract

Web-based corporate reporting has emerged as a fast and effective medium of communicating financial and non-financial information about companies as compared to traditional methods. However, the type of reporting, extent of disclosure, authenticity and standardization of format of disclosure is still at a developing stage. This paper presents views of different authors about corporate reporting practices followed by companies across the world. Corporate reporting practices are still evolving. Thus, there is a great scope of research in this field, especially in the Indian context.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M46, L63

Suggested Citation:

Gakhar, Divya Verma and Garg, Mahesh Chand, Web-Based Corporate Reporting Practices: A Survey (July 8, 2008). The Icfai University Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 43-58, July 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1156766
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies