Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Governance Modes for Germany's Financial Reporting System: Another Retreat of the Nation State?

Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 437-465, 2007

Posted: 10 Jul 2008

Philipp B. Volmer

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Joerg R. Werner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: July 2007

Abstract

This paper inquires into the recent changes of accounting regulation in Germany. To track these changes systematically, we develop a general framework for comparing accounting regimes. Within this framework, we find privatization tendencies in accounting governance which go along with international convergence. A closer analysis also shows that the observable privatization processes do not imply a retreat of the state. Quite the contrary, the public sector has increased its interventions-albeit partly on a supranational level. Many reforms do not originate from ‘exogenous’ European legislation and are due to developments in the systemic accounting environment. Looking at the socio-economic context of financial reporting, we identify and discuss possible driving forces such as demographic developments, fraudulent conduct of reporting entities or the globalization of capital markets, which are the intrinsic forces causing the functional convergence towards a new system of accountancy.

Keywords: Governance, socio-economics, financial markets, Germany, capitalist systems, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Volmer, Philipp B. and Werner, Jörg Richard and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, New Governance Modes for Germany's Financial Reporting System: Another Retreat of the Nation State? (July 2007). Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 437-465, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157695 or http://dx.doi.org/mwl028
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies