Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Socio-Economic Impacts of International Accounting Standards: An Introduction

Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 585-602, 2007

Posted: 10 Jul 2008 Last revised: 14 Nov 2014

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Tomo Hi de Suzuki

University of Oxford, Business School (Former); University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: October 1, 2007

Abstract

‘Why discuss accounting in Socio-Economic Review?’ ‘Because accounting constructs socio-economic reality.’ ‘How?!’ ‘Theoretically speaking, there should be many ways of doing “account-ing” - an act of explaining business realities to multiple stakeholders of socio-economies. Practically speaking, however, the current trend is to use “Fair Value Accounting” which is considered to be useful particularly for investors, and this is now being globally standardized.’ ‘What are the impacts of such new accounting on wider stakeholders and on the socio-economy at large?’ ‘Many aspects of our life may have been undemocratically administrated without being noticed, because the Fair Value Accounting is presumed to be fair, while it is not.’ In order to promote discussions over how our socio-economies should be accounted for, this paper introduces, in a reader-friendly manner, problems of the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and calls for diverse perspectives of future research.

Keywords: politics of accounting regulation, sociology of accounting, UNIAS project, corporate finance, financialization, business economics, relation of economics to other disciplines, accounting, economic sociology, economic anthropology

JEL Classification: A12, M41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Suzuki, Tomo Hi de, Socio-Economic Impacts of International Accounting Standards: An Introduction (October 1, 2007). Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 585-602, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157709 or http://dx.doi.org/mwm011
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies