Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Corporations the American Way: Why Exhaustive Rules and Just Deserts are the Mainstay of U.S. Corporate Governance

Duke Law Journal, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2008

32 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2008

Jonas V. Anderson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 20, 2008

Abstract

At the dawn of the twenty-first century, a flurry of media reports revealed that pervasive corporate and accounting scandals were infecting U.S. financial markets. As investors panicked and stock prices plummeted, a determined Congress scrambled to restore order by ushering in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the most exacting regulatory imposition on corporate America since the Great Depression. Burdened with the Act's enormous administrative and transactional costs, many corporations pulled their shares from U.S. markets and relocated them to exchanges in nations with less onerous governance strictures. This exodus has deeply concerned many U.S. political, financial, and legal commentators, who argue that the American corporate governance regime must be revamped to resemble the less burdensome and principles-based soft law structure that operates in countries like the United Kingdom. This Note assesses the viability of such an overhaul. It ultimately concludes that given the longstanding and singularly American predilection for rules-based regulation and litigation, any large-scale transplant of soft law principles into U.S. corporate governance is a practical impossibility.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporation, principles, regulation, Sarbanes-Oxley, rule-based, soft law

JEL Classification: B15, B25, N10, M40, L51, K22, K23, H11, G38, G28

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Jonas V., Regulating Corporations the American Way: Why Exhaustive Rules and Just Deserts are the Mainstay of U.S. Corporate Governance (February 20, 2008). Duke Law Journal, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
explaining that culture can mean "collective identity, nation, race, corporate policy, civilization, arts and letters, lifestyle, mass-produced popular artifacts
CULTURE/POWER/HISTORY: A READER IN CONTEMPORARY SOCIAL THEORY , volume 35 Posted: 1994
Id
Gunther Teubner
Legal Irritants: Good Faith in British Law or How Unifying Law Ends Up in New Divergences, 61 MOD
L. REV , volume 11 Posted: 1998
Crossref
John David Rose , Rescuing Capitalism , Corporatism
GREED AND THE AMERICAN CORPORATE CULTURE , volume 9 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ron Simha Hirschprung , Ori Leshman , Chen Hajaj
The Sound of Emotions: An Artificial Intelligence Approach to Predicting Emotions from Musical Selections
CHB-D-23-04780 · 24 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 74
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,106
RANK
357,528
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies