Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers, Taxes, and Historical Materialism

Indiana Law Journal, Vol. 83, p. 881, 2008

75 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2008

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Abstract

In the last few years, corporate mergers and acquisitions witnessed explosive growth. Although more recent market conditions have halted the latest merger movement, scholars and commentators have used the earlier rise in merger activity to reevaluate the preferential tax treatment granted to those mergers and acquisitions that fall under the U.S. tax law's definition of a corporate "reorganization." Under the current Internal Revenue Code, neither shareholders nor corporations recognize gain or loss on the exchange of stock or securities in transactions that qualify as a "corporate reorganization." The significance of this tax rule raises a central question: why does this tax preference exist? Since its statutory inception in 1919, numerous scholars have debated the theoretical justifications for this tax law. Few, however, have sought to move beyond intellectual and conceptual origins to address the more pertinent question of institutional development: how and why has this tax benefit become a deeply entrenched part of American corporate tax law?

This Article mainly addresses this second question. It contends that historically constituted political and economic interests have gradually transformed this law from its beginnings as a limited statutory exception into a modern version of voluntary corporate welfare. This transformation can be explained less by resort to timeless economic logic or legal doctrine than by reference to the institutional dynamics and the unfolding of concrete economic, political, and social processes.

In chronicling the early phases of this gradual transformation, this Article has two interrelated objectives. First, it seeks to historicize the prehistory, the statutory origins, and the early liberalization of this corporate tax law. Second, this Article highlights the chronological and contingent development of the reorganization provisions. In examining the historical processes and conditions that led to the early expansion and entrenchment of this tax law, this Article illustrates the contested and provisional nature of the creation, expansion, and maintenance of this corporate tax benefit. This Article mainly investigates two pivotal periods - the 1920s when this rule was gradually liberalized, and the early 1930s when this tax law faced near elimination - to underscore how material context and historical sequence determined the possibilities of legal change.

This historical story about the reorganization tax preference, in the end, is not simply a tale about the evolution of an important and enduring corporate tax law. This narrative is also a case study of the broader legislative process. It shows how a typical legal regime is molded by the interactions of democratic institutions; how the lawmaking process is shaped by the negotiations among citizens, Congress, the courts, and executive agencies. Accordingly, this historical story illustrates the continuing dynamic that exists between law and society, revealing how the legal process of fortifying and routinizing laws can unwittingly create special interests - interests that often reshape and help maintain the laws that have created them.

Keywords: tax policy, U.S. political history, tax history, corporate tax law

JEL Classification: H25, K34, N42

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., Mergers, Taxes, and Historical Materialism. Indiana Law Journal, Vol. 83, p. 881, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Alfred D See Generally , J R Chandler , The , Hand
THE MANAGERIAL REVOLUTION IN AMERICAN BUSINESS , p. 315 - 332 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Neil Fligstein , The Transformation , Corporate Control
Posted: 1990
Maury Klein
Summer 1990, at 311-25. 66. Between 1895 and 1905, nearly 2,000 firms were enveloped by consolidations, which reached a peak in 1899 with over 63 consolidations in the manufacturing sector alone. NAOMI R. LAMOREAUX, THE GREAT MERGER MOVEMENT IN AMERICAN BUSINESS
BUS. HIST. REV , issue 2 , p. 1895 - 1904 Posted: 1985
Ralph L Nelson , Merger Movements , American Industry
, p. 1895 - 1956 Posted: 1959
Load more
1 Citations
Jeremy Bearer-Friend
Restoring Democracy Through Tax Policy
24 Pages · Posted: 10 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 284
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,776
RANK
258,444
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies