Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Growth and Transformation of Chinese Businesses and the Chinese Economy: Implications for Transitional and Development Economics

Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 665-694, 2007

Posted: 10 Jul 2008

Tomo Hi de Suzuki

University of Oxford, Business School (Former); University of Oxford - Said Business School

Yan Yan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bingyi Chen

University of Colorado Denver

Date Written: October 2007

Abstract

Within the last decade, international accounting, as a common language of business and a mode of governance, has come to be widely disseminated in China, and has become an indispensable infrastructure of its socio-economy. This diffusion of accounting was propagated as a national strategy for growth, led by a few senior officials as key actors, and implemented through the National Accounting Institutes (NAIs) as a distinct institutional mechanism. Despite its importance, accounting is rarely examined in the literatures of knowledge transfer, institutional sociology, transitional economics and development studies. Drawing on the multidisciplinary methods of contemporary history, this paper casts light on the NAIs as a focal point which effectively transfers and disseminates new knowledge, order and the spirit of a market economy, and which could be further developed, with cautions, as a replicable model for transitional and developing economies.

Keywords: financial institutions, China, National Accounting Institute, strategy and leadership, economic development, accountics, O16 economic development: financial markets, saving and capital investment, corporate finance and governance M41 accounting P31 socialist enterprises and their transitions

Suggested Citation:

Suzuki, Tomo Hi de and Yan, Yan and Chen, Bingyi, Accounting for the Growth and Transformation of Chinese Businesses and the Chinese Economy: Implications for Transitional and Development Economics (October 2007). Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 665-694, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157714 or http://dx.doi.org/mwm016
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies