Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Inductive Typology of Auditing Research

26 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2008 Last revised: 17 Jan 2011

Cédric Lesage

JMSB

Heidi Wechtler

Sorbonne Business School

Date Written: October 28, 2010

Abstract

Typologies of research topics in a specific area are necessary: they organize scientific knowledge and form a general picture of the field concerned. Typologies of auditing research have been previously developed and used to analyze trends and compare research outputs from different countries, among other purposes. However, the existing classifications are based on a predefined structure generally grounded in a practitioner's approach, which may lead to an ill-defined understanding of the auditing research field.

We therefore use an extensive computerized content analysis of 3,143 abstracts from 25 academic journals publishing auditing research, from their year of creation up to the year 2005. Our inductive typology identifies 16 major themes in auditing research. We study their importance and trends, and the contribution of the leading journals. This inductive typology results in a useful organization of auditing research, which may help academics to better understand and study this growing field of research.

Keywords: audit, content analysis, typology

JEL Classification: C88, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lesage, Cédric and Wechtler, Heidi, An Inductive Typology of Auditing Research (October 28, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1173054 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1173054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , I Solomon
Research Opportunities in Auditing: A Second Decade Posted: 1989
E Abrahamson
Management fashion. Academy of Management Review , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 254 - 285 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Abrahamson , G Fairchild
Management Fashion: Lifecycles, Triggers, and Collective Learning Processes , volume 44 , p. 708 - 740 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S E Bonner , J W Hesford , W A Van Der Stede , S M Young
The most influential journals in academic accounting
Organizations & Society , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 663 - 685 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,217
RANK
140,530
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Fees: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Supply and Demand Attributes

By David Hay, Warren Robert Knechel, ...

Litigation Risk and Audit Fees: Evidence from UK Firms Cross-Listed on U.S. Exchanges

By Ananth Seetharaman, Ferdinand A. Gul, ...

The Contribution of Internal Audit as a Determinant of External Audit Fees and Factors Influencing this Contribution

By William L. Felix, Audrey A. Gramling, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies