Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tylor's Legacy in International Accounting Research

Victoria University Accounting and Commercial Law Working Paper No. 46

15 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

When Hofstede published the book Culture's Consequences - International Differences in Work-Related Values in 1980, he established indices of culture; culture was to be a measurable variable in international business studies. Hofstede's theoretical basis is traced to a comparative approach established by George Murdock. The lack of use of Hofstede's dimensions in mainstream social sciences is described. This is sourced to the nineteenth-century scholarship of Edward Tylor, and the debate concerning Galton's problem. Murdock took the occasion of the 1971 Huxley Memorial Lecture Anthropology's Mythology to renounce his own adherence to this method, and to plead for a new association between anthropology and psychology. Such a shift was paralleled by Hofstede in 1991. It is suggested that there are other methods which may better advance international comparative accounting research.

Keywords: Hofstede, accounting, culture, Tylor, Galton

JEL Classification: B1, M1

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., Tylor's Legacy in International Accounting Research (2007). Victoria University Accounting and Commercial Law Working Paper No. 46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1179062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Asian­Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues
Crossref
V N Awasthi , C W Chow , A Wu
Performance measurement and resource expenditure choices in a teamwork environment: the effects of national culture
Management Accounting Research , volume 9 , p. 119 - 138 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Z Barbu
Society, Culture and Personality: An Introduction to Social Science Posted: 1971
R F Baskerville
Hofstede never studied culture. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
286,507
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies