Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization of Professional Accounting: The Big 8 Entering New Zealand

Business School, University of Exeter, Accounting Working Papers 06/06

23 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008 Last revised: 15 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: February 27, 2007

Abstract

The Big 4 accounting firms (previously Big 8, Big 6 and Big 5) have spread around the world and dominate the market for auditing services in most countries. Until relatively recently, this was not the case, and each country's accounting profession was led by local firms. The spread of these partnerships throughout the world is a phenomenon worthy of research, and we examine the spread of these firms to New Zealand. Previous literature on this and related issues is consistent in suggesting that such changes are driven by globalization of business generally; technology; and deregulation. Our evidence finds some support for globalization, and strong support for technology as a factor, but little support for deregulation. We also find that affiliation came at some cost to Big 8 partners in loss of autonomy, but was unavoidable if an audit firm was to remain significant.

Keywords: Globalization, accounting partnerships, human labour costs, Big 8, Big 4

JEL Classification: M40, M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Hay, David, Globalization of Professional Accounting: The Big 8 Entering New Zealand (February 27, 2007). Business School, University of Exeter, Accounting Working Papers 06/06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1213735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
T Anderson , D Zéghal
The Pricin g of Audit Services: Further Eviden ce from the
Canadian M arket. Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Baskerville , D Hay
The Effect of the Big Eight Accounting Firm Mergers on the market for audit services: Further Eviden ce
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P W Bernstein
Competition Comes to Accounting
Fortune July , volume 17 Posted: 1978
D M Brock
The changin g p rofessional organ ization: A review of comp eting archetypes
International Journal of Manag ement Review , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 157 - 174 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,962
RANK
285,369
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Reflections of the International Accounting Harmonization on Emerging Economies: Jordan as an Example

By Malek Alsharairi and Riyadh Jasim Al-abdullah

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies