Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
OE Stories and Other Unexpected Outcomes in an Oral History Study of Partners from Large Professional Accounting Firms

13 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: April 2008

Abstract

Oral history reports are replete with discovery, an unexpected depth of emotion associated with recall, and the benefit of reflection some time after an event by those most intimately involved. A recent research project interviewing forty older partners in large accounting firms in New Zealand threw up some unexpected outcomes. The objective of this study is to isolate one such unexpected outcome, providing an angle on the working lives of young New Zealanders: that of the OE (overseas experience). It is likely this illustrates a common experience for oral histories: that the life experiences revealed in interviews do far more than provide personal narratives of familiar historical events. The project used both a survey and interviews to record reflections by partners in all of the 'Big 8' concerning their experiences as young employees in such firms. While talking through the required bibliographic detail, a number of accountants recalled trips to London or the USA. Considering the continuing popularity of OE, perhaps it should not have been so unexpected, and their obvious enjoyment of these reminiscences is reflected in this study.

Keywords: Big 8, OE, New Zealand, accountants, travelling scholarships, IIANZ, NZSA

JEL Classification: J60, M40

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., OE Stories and Other Unexpected Outcomes in an Oral History Study of Partners from Large Professional Accounting Firms (April 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1213662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R F Baskerville
Professional closure by proxy: the impact of changing educational requirements on class mobility for a cohort of Big 8 partners
Accounting History , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 318 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Rachel F. Baskerville , John Beechey
Performance-Based Compensation: How an Oral History Can Inform Our Understanding of Accounting Partnership Income Allocation Models
Business School, University of Exeter, Accounting Working Paper No. 06/07 Pages: 25 Posted: 10 Aug 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rachel Baskerville , David Hay
The Effect of Accounting Firm Mergers on the Market for Audit Services: New Zealand Evidence' Abacus , volume 42 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Overseas Experience, but always abbreviated in speech and interviews
Load more
1 Citations
Rachel F. Baskerville
Is it Turned on Now? - Reflections on Undertaking Oral History in Accounting
15 Pages · Posted: 31 Jul 2008 · Last revised: 5 Oct 2017 · Downloads: 195
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
677,757
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies