Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Survey: Why Did the Survivors Survive in the Big 8 in New Zealand?

26 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2008 Last revised: 17 Nov 2014

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

This survey was phase one of a two-phase project, the overall aim of which is to provide an understanding of the processes of successful development, expansion or adaptation by professional services firms by surveying and interviewing partners in the "Big 8" chartered accounting firms in the 1980s. Studies of the drivers to success and the causes of the disintegration of a sector of professional service firms such as chartered accounting firms are rare. Yet it is by studying both success narratives and "extinctions" that we can understand "Why did the survivors survive"? This project is to utilise a multi-disciplinary research approach, resulting in outcomes of particular interest to organisational theorists and accounting historians. This survey gave some insights from 108 partners in the Big 8,and was followed later in 2002 with 40 oral history interveiws which informed eight research papers on this SSRN site.

Keywords: Big 8, differential survival of partnership organisation, partnership organization

JEL Classification: M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., Survey: Why Did the Survivors Survive in the Big 8 in New Zealand? (2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1220670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1220670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,512
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies