Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Observations on the Changing Language of Accounting

Accounting History

36 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2008 Last revised: 29 Jun 2010

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 15, 2008

Abstract

The meaning of words can change over time. In addition, new words may enter a language, sometimes replacing other words. This paper extends prior literature on language change in accounting by drawing to a larger extent on theories from linguistics, and by placing greater emphasis on mechanisms of and motivations for change. Particular emphasis is placed on the need to verbalise new concepts, and socio-cultural change. The latter is illustrated with examples from the development of accounting as an occupational interest group, and the adoption of Anglo-American accounting terminology and culture. The paper concludes that language change in accounting, including transmission between languages and cultures, can inform accounting historians about the transfer of technical developments, as well as about socio-economic, political or ideological processes, power relationships, and the importance of terminology in jurisdictional disputes.

Keywords: language change, terminology, accounting, history, profession, jurisdiction, culture

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Lisa, Observations on the Changing Language of Accounting (August 15, 2008). Accounting History, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1228525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
As opposed to planned language change, as for example in linguistic purism (see below)
Sometimes motivations and conditions for, and mechanisms of, change may be confused or treated as equivalent (see e.g. Blank"s (1999) critique of Ullmann)
Relating to the interconnectedness of concepts in our minds: concepts can evoke other related concepts Posted: 1999
334) and includes lexical semantics, which refers to the meaning of words Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,331
RANK
175,588
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Inaugural Lecture: '109 Voices: Translation Issues for Accounting Standards in the EU', Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies