Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Publishing Patterns in Accounting History Research in Italy, 1990-2004

Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 35, No. 1, pp. 1-48, June 2008

Posted: 26 Aug 2008

Lino Cinquini

Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Alessandro Marelli

University of Teramo

Andrea Tenucci

Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna

Date Written: August 21, 2008

Abstract

In the last decade, an increasing number of analyses of accounting history literature have been undertaken to classify historical research paths and to "map" the variety of approaches and issues of the discipline in different geographical settings so as to make international comparisons. The paper develops these topics in the Italian context by studying the development of accounting history research (AHR) in the last 15 years. Contributions by Italian authors have been published in international and national specialist journals as well as in more general accounting journals. Other papers have been presented and published in the proceedings of the biannual SISR (Society Italiana di Storia della Ragioneria) Congress and in the Congress celebrating the 500th anniversary of the publication of Pacioli's Summa held in Venice in 1994. The findings chart publication trends during the period 1990-2004 from a quantitative and qualitative perspective, based on different dimensions, the dynamic of change in Italian AHR, and its possible limitations. The paper is informed by an international perspective and causal interpretations are attempted.

Keywords: Accounting, History, Italy

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Cinquini, Lino and Marelli, Alessandro and Tenucci, Andrea, An Analysis of Publishing Patterns in Accounting History Research in Italy, 1990-2004 (August 21, 2008). Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 35, No. 1, pp. 1-48, June 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1243697
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies