Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research

Posted: 8 Sep 1998

Thomas Ahrens

United Arab Emirates University (UAEU) - Accounting

Jeremy F. Dent

London School of Economics

Abstract

Over the past fifteen years the literature has seen a considerable growth in field work, motivated by the quest for rich descriptions of accounting in action. Despite a lively methodology debate on the topic, the question of how richness can be realized in field studies has not been directly discussed. This paper seeks to address this gap. It suggests a focus for rich studies of accounting, and points to three issues that researchers need to consider to produce rich accounts. It goes on to discuss six studies of accounting, showing how different decisions on these issues can inform different styles of research. It concludes with some observations on the research process itself.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Ahrens, Thomas and Dent, Jeremy F., Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=124433
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies