Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Satellite Accounting for Green Initiatives of Companies

Posted: 17 Sep 2009

Padma Srinivasan

Manipal University, Bangalore Campus

Date Written: August 8, 2008

Abstract

Human civilization has evolved using the global natural resources to the economic advantage of its constituent members. The land developers, for instance, convert the fertile and deface wetlands, timber companies wipe out forests, paper mill dumps dioxin laden wastes into the rivers and fishermen go for excessive harvesting of lakes and oceans. In short, the economic activities definitely affect the environmental balance in many ways. The ecosystem degrades with aggressive misuse of the resources.

In production and consumption of goods and services, the society ruins the diversity of flora and fauna inhabiting both land and water. The current accounting system does not account for these environmental issues. The US government took the initiative in 1993 by publishing its first version which was closely related to the structure of SNA (System of National Accounts). To overcome these environmental issues, a new measure of accounting should be followed known as Green accounting. There are two approaches of green accounting i.e. physical and monetary with can be used together preferably. The initial step in this process is creation of a satellite account as a separate entity in the company’s balance sheet and for rest or the period for environmental assets, expenditures and liabilities. The Egyptian Petroleum sector effectively used the concept of green accounting to show greater respect for the environment and the human kind. This paper looks at the planning of green accounting to project the ‘true and fair view’ of organization as responsible members to care for retaining global eco balance.

Keywords: Environment Audit, Internal Audit, Leather industry, Management Control Systems

JEL Classification: M40. M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Srinivasan, Padma, Creating Satellite Accounting for Green Initiatives of Companies (August 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1260244
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies