Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going International: Accounting and Auditing Standards

Internal Auditing, Vol. 23, No. 4, pp. 3-12, July 2008

20 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2014

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Tagi Sagafi-Nejad

Texas A&M International University

Kun Wang

Texas Southern University - Jesse H. Jones School of Business

Abstract

The worldwide movement toward international standards for financial reporting and for auditing will have a significant impact on the work of corporate accountants and internal auditors. Across countries, accounting standards and auditing standards are different as a result of unique cultural, political, legal, and economic factors. Ongoing efforts to harmonize accounting and auditing standards are expected to benefit economic activity in nations around the world. This article examines the role of international accounting and auditing standards in today's global economy. A brief history of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) is provided, along with challenges to using the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the IASB. An example balance sheet is provided that shows how IFRS results can differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A brief history of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) is provided, along with current developments regarding the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) issued by the IAASB.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy and Sagafi-Nejad, Tagi and Wang, Kun, Going International: Accounting and Auditing Standards. Internal Auditing, Vol. 23, No. 4, pp. 3-12, July 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1263002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Gaspar , L Bierman , J Kolari , R Hise , L M Smith , A Arreola-Risa
Posted: 2006
Arthur Wyatt
Commentary on International Accounting Standards: A New Perspective, Accounting Horizons , volume 3 , p. 105 - 108 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Tohmatsu Deloitte Touche
IFRSs in Your Pocket Posted: 2007
Paul Practer , Keith Alfredson , Ruth Picker , Ken Leo , Jeannie Radford , Victoria Wise
Applying International Financial Reporting Standards (Enhanced Edition) Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,709
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,994
RANK
4,685
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies