Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Assignment Revisited

32 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2008

Richard M. Bird

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 2008

Abstract

This paper first restates the lessons to be learned from Richard Musgrave's pioneering discussion of the tax assignment issue. Next, it considers subsequent developments in the theory of fiscal federalism related to the issue of tax assignment. Surprisingly little clear guidance is offered by the theoretical discussion when it comes to the practical policy issues facing any country with respect to tax assignment: what countries do seems to bear little relation to what theory suggests they should do. This point is illustrated by a brief review of tax assignments observed around the world in large emerging countries. The tax assignment issue in such countries as India and China is both important and unduly neglected: for the most part, these are still countries in search (whether they know it or not) for a sustainable solution to this problem. The paper concludes with some reflections about what seem to be future possible - or, perhaps better, needed - developments with respect to both the theory and practice of tax assignment, again with special reference to large emerging countries.

Keywords: tax assignment, fiscal federalism, Musgrave, Brazil, India, China, Russia, Nigeria

JEL Classification: B29, H77

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Richard Miller, Tax Assignment Revisited (September 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1273810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1273810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
O L Acosta , R M Bird
The Dilemma of Decentralization in Colombia
Fiscal Reform in Colombia: Problems and Prospects Posted: 2005
J R Afonso , S G Ferreira , R Varsano
Fiscal Competition
Federalism in a Changing World: Learning from Each Other Posted: 2003
M F Ambrosanio , M Bordignon
Normative Versus Positive Theories of Revenue Assignments in Federations
Handbook of Fiscal Federalism Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Bahl
Opportunities and Risks of Fiscal Decentralization: A Developing country Perspective" in Achieving Decentralization Objectives Posted: 2008
Load more
6 Citations
Richard Miller Bird , Michael Smart
Assigning State Taxes in a Federal Country: The Case of Australia
47 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2009 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2009 · Downloads: 320
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Roy Bahl , Musharraf Cyan
Tax Assignment: Does the Practice Match the Theory?
Environment and Planning C: Government and Policy , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 264 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Fiorenza Carraro , Andrea Zatti
Environmental taxation and municipal fiscal federalism: remarks and perspectives on the Italian case study
ECONOMICS AND POLICY OF ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT , issue 2 , p. 61 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Richard Miller Bird
The Spending Power in Federal Countries
24 Pages · Posted: 30 Dec 2009 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,653
RANK
116,469
6 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Second Generation Fiscal Federalism: Implications for Decentralized Democratic Governance and Economic Development

By Barry R. Weingast

Assigning State Taxes in a Federal Country: The Case of Australia

By Richard M. Bird and Michael Smart

Subnational Taxes in Developing Countries: The Way Forward

By Roy W. Bahl and Richard M. Bird

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies