Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Schumpeter's Economic Theory and the Dynamic Accounting View of the Firm: Neglected Pages from the Theory of Economic Development

Economy and Society, Vol. 37, No. 4, pp. 525-547, November 2008

Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: November 1, 2008

Abstract

The first English translation of some of Schumpeter's (1926) pages of the "Theory of Economic Development" is presented. These neglected pages are remarkable because they significantly add to Schumpeter's masterpiece on a number of issues concerned with accounting, law and economics of the firm. They show that Schumpeter considered understanding the firm, together with innovation, as important scientific problems. Schumpeter doubts the explanatory value of proprietary entrepreneurship and provides an early justification of the dynamic entity view of business activity generated by the firm as a becoming concern. He discusses its implications for understanding issues of economic organization and corporate governance, and suggests some theoretical insights concerning business capital and money under conditions of real dynamics and complexity. The doors opened by Schumpeter indicate that money and accounting are fundamentally coupled as complementary institutions in framing and shaping the economic and monetary process of the firm as an enterprise entity.

Keywords: economic theory of the firm, economic organization, corporate governance, enterprise entity, intangibles, fair value, accounting and economics, business law and economics, dynamic theory of capital and money

JEL Classification: A12, B25, B31, M20, M40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Schumpeter's Economic Theory and the Dynamic Accounting View of the Firm: Neglected Pages from the Theory of Economic Development (November 1, 2008). Economy and Society, Vol. 37, No. 4, pp. 525-547, November 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276167
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,500
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies