Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Restatements: Are They Always Bad News for Investors?

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27575

27 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: November 2005

Abstract

This study investigates a large sample of financial statement restatements over theperiod 1986-2001, and compares restatements caused by changes in accounting principlesto those caused by errors. Typically, investors perceive restatements as negative signals due to three potential reasons: (i) the restatement indicates problems with the accounting system that may be manifestations of broader operational (and managerial) problems, (ii) the restatement causes downward revisions in future cash flows expectations, and (iii) the restatement indicates managerial attempts to cover up income decline through â¬Scookingthe booksâ¬?. We provide evidence that market reactions to restatements due to errors aregenerally negative. We show that these restatements come in periods of declining profits and lower profits than industry peers for the restating firms, consistent with bothopportunistic managerial behavior and operational problems. However, investorsâ¬"reactions to income-increasing restatements due to errors are not different from zero,suggesting that the perceived failure of the accounting system is just offset by the upward revisions in future cash flow expectations in these cases of income-increasing errors. Thus, our combined results show that not all restatements are alike; users of theinformation need to carefully assess the existence and potential effects of the three factors that typically cause the downward revisions in stock prices on a case by case basis.

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Livnat, Joshua and Segal, Dan, Accounting Restatements: Are They Always Bad News for Investors? (November 2005). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27575, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Accounting Changes
Accounting Principles Board (APB) , volume 20 Posted: 1971
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP Violation: Implications For Assessing Earnings Management Among Firms With Extreme Financial Performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M D Beneish
Incentives And Penalties Related To Earnings Overstatements That Violate GAAP
Accounting Review , volume 74 , p. 425 - 457 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J L S Callen , D Robb , Segal
Revenue Manipulation and Restatements by Loss Firms Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,735
RANK
139,795
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies