Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamentals of Accounting Losses

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27456

51 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2005

Abstract

This paper examines accounting and non-accounting factors behind accounting losses over a fifty-year period. Using multivariate time-series analysis, we report evidence that the annual percentage of losses for U.S. firms is significantly related to accounting conservatism, Compustat coverage of small firms, real firm performance as measured by cash flows from operations, and business cycle factors. We further find that non-accounting factors tend to play the dominant role in explaining accounting losses over our sample period. Our results are robust to alternative definitions of macroeconomic productivity, as well as to varying model specifications. Our findings contribute to the literature on accounting losses and accounting conservatism and have implications for the use of accounting loss information in numerous settings.

Keywords: Accounting losses, accounting conservatism, business cycle, macroeconomics, cash flows from operations

Suggested Citation:

Klein, April, Fundamentals of Accounting Losses (June 2005). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27456, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
L Alessi
Do business firms gain from inflation
Journal of Business , volume 37 , p. 162 - 166 Posted: 1964
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timelines of earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 38 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W Beaver , S Ryan
Biases and lags in book value and their effects on the ability of the book-to-market ratio to predict book return on equity
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Dan S. Dhaliwal , Steven E. Kaplan , Rick C. Laux , Eric H. Weisbrod
The Information Content of Tax Expense for Firms Reporting Losses
Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 21 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 281
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ian D. Gow , Steven Neil Kaplan , David F. Larcker , Anastasia A. Zakolyukina
CEO Personality and Firm Policies
NBER Working Paper No. w22435 · 61 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 21 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 247
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abigail M. Allen , Melissa Fay Lewis-Western , Kristen Valentine
The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms
55 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 23 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 529
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Aobdia , Luminita Enache , Anup Srivastava
Changes in Big N Auditors’ Client Selection and Retention Strategies Over Time
62 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 18 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 232
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,614
RANK
36,543
16 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies