Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for the Use of International Reporting Standards in New Zealand: A Briefing Paper Prepared on Behalf of the New Zealand Securities Commission

60 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2008

Keitha L. Dunstan

Bond University - School of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2008

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to examine the issues pertinent to the consideration of the proposal made by the Accounting Standards Review Board (ASRB) that New Zealand adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The purpose of this examination is to provide input to the New Zealand Securities Commission (the Commission) to assist them in their deliberations on making recommendations on the future development of the financial reporting infrastructure for New Zealand's securities markets. Similar to securities regulators across the world, the Commission has an interest in promoting a strong securities market where the financial reporting framework and its supportive infrastructure results in high quality, transparent and comparable financial reports. There are four identifiable components of the infrastructure that drive the quality of financial reporting in New Zealand.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Dunstan, Keitha L., The Case for the Use of International Reporting Standards in New Zealand: A Briefing Paper Prepared on Behalf of the New Zealand Securities Commission (October 9, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1281656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
A Aldford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
K Alfredson
Converging Australian accounting standards to international standards. Company Director , p. 19 - 21 Posted: 2002-08
Bdo Anderson , Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , &amp; Ernt , Grant Young , Thorton , Pricewaterhousecoopers Kpmg
A survey of national accounting rules benchmarked against international Posted: 2001
Load more
2 Citations
Mehwish Naseer , Kashif Rashid
Globalization
Posted: 2019
Crossref
Tarus John Kipngetich , Ronald Bonuke , Joel Tenai
Does Board Education Diversity Affect Environmental Accounting Disclosure?
SEISENSE Journal of Management , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 17 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,238
RANK
394,952
2 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies