Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Demise of Defined Benefit Plans for Private Employers

Tax Notes, Vol. 121, No. 2, 2008

Posted: 12 Oct 2008

Kathryn J. Kennedy

John Marshall Law School

Date Written: October 13, 2008

Abstract

This is the third report in a trilogy, which began in 2005, in which the author examines the change in pension rules set forth in both ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, applicable to defined benefit plans maintained by private employers. The original title was in the hope that Congress would revisit ERISA's and the code's pension funding rules in order to restore the viability of single-employer defined benefit pension plans. Unfortunately the new rules promulgated by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA '06) do not foster the growth of existing or new defined benefit pension plans, except for those of small employers.

In this third report, the author analyzes the new minimum pension funding rules and the new restricted benefit rules (which also affect a defined benefit plan's qualification status) enacted by PPA '06, effective beginning in 2008. As noted in a recent report by the Government Accountability Office, many employers are responding to these rules by freezing benefit accruals for existing and/or new entrants under the plan. Coupled with these new rules, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has introduced a new accounting reporting requirement that will have important financial effects for plan sponsors of underfunded single-employer defined benefit plans. Attorneys and actuaries alike are responding to these challenges by offering a variety of strategies for plan sponsors. These requirements and the responding strategies have been summarized at the end of this article.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, J26

Suggested Citation:

Kennedy, Kathryn J., The Demise of Defined Benefit Plans for Private Employers (October 13, 2008). Tax Notes, Vol. 121, No. 2, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1282128
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies