Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Republican Roots of New Deal Tax Policy

Tax Notes, Vol. 100, No. 9, 2003

Posted: 12 Oct 2008

Joseph J. Thorndike

Tax Analysts

Date Written: September 1, 2003

Abstract

The New Deal tax regime was not a product of the New Deal. It was, rather, the ironic capstone to a decade of Republican fiscal stewardship. The Revenue Act of 1932, enacted five months before Franklin Roosevelt won his bid for the White House, established the enduring framework for 1930s tax policy. For the next eight years, every tax debate would unfold against the backdrop of this landmark revenue law, including its broad, regressive consumption taxes and its narrow but progressive income tax. While often beleaguered on its rhetorical fringes, the system proved remarkably durable in its statutory core.

Keywords: tax, New Deal, Mellon

Suggested Citation:

Thorndike, Joseph J., The Republican Roots of New Deal Tax Policy (September 1, 2003). Tax Notes, Vol. 100, No. 9, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1282646
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies