Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why do You Speak English (in Your Annual Report)?

32 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2008

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Cédric Lesage

JMSB

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: October 14, 2008

Abstract

The dominance of English as a lingua franca in international business exchanges is so commonly accepted that there has been no investigation into the use of English as an external financial reporting language in non-English speaking countries. In this study we analyze the factors associated with the publication of an English-language annual report in non-English-speaking countries. Using a sample of 3,994 firms from 27 countries in 2003, we find that about 50% of the sample firms issue annual reports in English. Our findings suggest that the decision to publish an English annual report is related to the internationalization process (via foreign sales), language barriers (via language distance and language importance), governance (via ownership structure) and financial concerns (via the need for external financing, capital market size and cross-listing).

Keywords: International financial reporting, annual report, language, cost-benefit analysis, logistic regression

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47, G34, G24

Suggested Citation:

Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Lesage, Cédric and Stolowy, Hervé, Why do You Speak English (in Your Annual Report)? (October 14, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1284489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1284489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Adhikari , R H Tondkar
Environmental factors influencing accounting disclosure requirements of global stock exchanges
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 105 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Agarwal , S N Ramaswami
Choice of foreign market entry mode: Impact of ownership, location and internationalization factors
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Anonymous
AIMR corporate disclosure survey. A report to AIMR Posted: 2000
Load more
1 Citations
Elizabeth de Groot , Hubert Korzilius , Marinel Gerritsen , Catherine Nickerson
There's No Place Like Home: UK-Based Financial Analysts' Response to Dutch-English and British-English Annual Report Texts
IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,925
RANK
161,215
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies