Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Depreciation and Other Reserve Funds for Municipal Corporations - Other Voices in an Early Twentieth Century Accounting Debate

39 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2008

Philip Colquhoun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

The use of depreciation by municipalities has been discussed in the accounting history literature previously. Coombs and Edwards (1992) indicated that the issue of the accounting for fixed assets by British municipalities was "substantially resolved" by 1914. While Potts (1982) indicated the issue in the USA was resolved in 1935 by the National Committee on Municipal Accounting. Both of these key papers focused on the debates as recorded in various professional publications and/or academic publications at the time.

This paper provides an historical case study focusing on one municipality, and its accounting for depreciation and reserve funds for a subset of its assets. As a case study, the paper includes the perspective of many of the participants, including judges, politicians, auditors, local government officials, central government officials and the significantly underheard voices of ratepayers and consumers.

Following a 1915 court case and concerns expressed by their auditor, the WCC sought legislation to permit it to operate a depreciation fund and create other funds. The appropriateness of such funds was debated, with the government and the Parliament receiving advice both in favour and against the creation of such funds. It is these voices, mainly from outside the accounting profession, that this paper discusses. Of particular note are the various views of capital maintenance and principles of financial management for local government.

Suggested Citation:

Colquhoun, Philip, Depreciation and Other Reserve Funds for Municipal Corporations - Other Voices in an Early Twentieth Century Accounting Debate (2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1286943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1286943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
G C Attorney­general Ex Relatione
Cooke v Wellington City Corporation
G C Attorney­general Ex Relatioe
Cooke v Wellington City Corporation , volume 987 Posted: 1916
G C Attorney­general Ex Relatione
Cooke v Wellington City Corporation , volume 994 Posted: 1916
G C Attorney­general Ex Relatione
Cooke v Wellington City Corporation , volume 997 Posted: 1916
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
487,221
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies