Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why are Companies Freezing Their Pensions?

50 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2008

Alicia H. Munnell

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Mauricio Soto

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2007

Abstract

Defined benefit plans in the private sector are on the decline. And the early 21st century produced an uptick in the pace of decline driven by the financially devastating impact of the 'perfect storm' of plummeting stock prices and low interest rates, legislation that will require underfunded plans to increase their contributions, and accounting changes that will force fluctuations in pension finance onto the earnings statement and will likely eliminate the smoothing available under current rules. Increased volatility is not acceptable to corporate managers and may, in large part, explain why large healthy companies have taken steps to end their defined benefit plans.

In an attempt to identify factors that led specific companies to freeze their plans, this paper explores the relationship between the probability that a plan was frozen and characteristics of the plan, the firm, and the industry. The results imply that plans where credit balances are high relative to income, legacy costs are substantial and funding ratios are low have a higher probability of being frozen. That makes sense in that plans with these characteristics are likely to have the most impact on future earnings under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's expected reporting requirements. It is reasonable to expect more plans with these characteristics to freeze in the future.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, J33, J26

Suggested Citation:

Munnell, Alicia and Soto, Mauricio, Why are Companies Freezing Their Pensions? (December 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1294772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1294772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Stephanie R. Aaronson , Julia Lynn Coronado
Are Firms or Workers Behind the Shift Away from Db Pension Plan?
FEDS Paper No. 2005-17 Pages: 33 Posted: 6 May 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bryon Ackerman
Remington Freezing Pension Plans for Non-Union Employees Posted: 2006-10-11
Emily S Andrews
The Growth and Distribution of 401(k) Plans," in Trends in Pensions Posted: 1992
Bradley D Belt
Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Aviation, Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure Posted: 2005-06-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,104
RANK
202,849
26 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Outlook for Pension Contributions and Profits in the U.S.

By Alicia H. Munnell and Mauricio Soto

The State of Private Pensions: Current 5500 Data

By Mauricio Soto and Marric Buessing

Why are Healthy Employers Freezing Their Pensions?

By Mauricio Soto, Alicia H. Munnell, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies