Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Four Years after Enron Assessing the Financial Market Regulatory Clean Up

NYU Working Paper No. FIN-05-029

22 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2008

Roy C. Smith

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

Ingo Walter

New York University - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 2005

Abstract

This paper assesses the efforts to â¬Sclean upâ¬? financial markets and corporate governance practices in the wake of the bankruptcies and scandals of the early 2000s. It begins by reviewing what actually happened during that period, what damages ensued and the responses of government enforcement agencies andpolicy makers, then assesses the impact of the various actions that followed andtheir effectiveness. The paper then looks at these actions in an historical context,examining the possibilities of imbalances of power between market insiders andordinary investors that provide an uneven market environment. Finally, itdiscusses actions that might be taken to have a greater impact on leveling the uneven market, and what might be expected in the way of altered governance practices for the future.

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Roy C. and Walter, Ingo, Four Years after Enron Assessing the Financial Market Regulatory Clean Up (November 2005). NYU Working Paper No. FIN-05-029, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1294166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Edward Altman
Bankruptcy and Default Statistics Posted: 2002-08-31
Min Wu
Earnings Restatements: A Capital Market Perspective
Pages: 54 Posted: 24 May 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Source: Stanford Law School Class Action Website 4 Source: Stanford Law School Class Action Website
Investment Company Institute and Securities Industry Association
Equity Ownership in America Posted: 2002-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,766
RANK
478,514
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies