Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting and Predicting Financial Statement Fraud: The Effectiveness of the Fraud Triangle and SAS No. 99

40 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2008

Christopher J. Skousen

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Kevin R. Smith

Utah Valley University -- Woodbury School of Business

Charlotte J. Wright

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater

Date Written: October 28, 2008

Abstract

This study empirically examines the effectiveness of Cressey's (1953) fraud risk factor framework adopted in SAS No. 99 in detection of financial statement fraud. According to Cressey's theory pressure, opportunity and rationalization are always present in fraud situations. We develop variables which serve as proxy measures for pressure, opportunity and rationalization and test these variables using publicly available information relating to a set of fraud firms and a matched sample of no-fraud firms. We identify five pressure proxies and two opportunity proxies that are significantly related to financial statement fraud. We find that rapid asset growth, increased cash needs and external financing are positively related to the likelihood of fraud. Internal versus external ownership of shares and control of the board of directors are also linked to increased incidence of financial statement fraud. Expansion in the number of independent members on the audit committee, on the other hand, is negatively related to the occurrence of fraud. Further testing indicates that the significant variables are also effective at predicting which of the sample firms were in the fraud versus no-fraud groups.

Keywords: Fraud detection, fraud risk factors, SAS No. 99

Suggested Citation:

Skousen, Christopher J. and Smith, Kevin R. and Wright, Charlotte J., Detecting and Predicting Financial Statement Fraud: The Effectiveness of the Fraud Triangle and SAS No. 99 (October 28, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1295494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1295494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L Abbott , S Parker
Audit committees and auditor selection
Journal of Accountancy , volume 191 , issue 6 , p. 95 - 96 Posted: 2001
A J F Agrawal , J M Jaffe , Karpoff
Management turnover and governance changes following the revelation of fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
W Albrecht
Fraud Examination Posted: 2002
Load more
25 Citations
Mark W. Nelson , Kathy Rupar
Numerical Formats within Risk Disclosures and the Moderating Effect of Investors’ Disclosure Management Concerns
Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 30-2011 · 50 Pages · Posted: 9 Jun 2011 · Downloads: 401
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amiruddin Junus , Sri Sundari , Siti Zakina Azzahra
Fraudulent financial reporting and firm value: An empirical analysis from the fraud hexagon perspective
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 339 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Hisyam Ramadhan , Nurendy Chandra , Gen Norman Thomas
Effect of Covid-19 on Audit Evidence Collection and Its Relationship with Fraud Detection
, p. 190 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Norazida Mohamed , Morrison Handley-Schachler
Roots of Responsibilities to Financial Statement Fraud Control
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 28 , p. 46 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9,586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
28,276
RANK
1,371
25 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies