Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Continuing Questions Regarding Worthless Securities

Tax Notes, Vol. 121, No. 6, 2008

Posted: 9 Nov 2008

Brian A. Peabody

Ernst & Young LLP - National Tax Office

Date Written: November 10, 2008

Abstract

In this report, Peabody considers two significant pieces of administrative guidance pertaining to worthless securities: LTR 200710004 and reg. section 1.165-5(i). In LTR 200710004, the IRS ruled that a corporation succeeds to gross receipts history under section 381 and also ruled that the qualitative aspects of gross receipts may be inherited through intercompany dividends. Peabody explores these rulings and considers a variety of issues arising there from, such as how earnings and profits and gross receipts are to be properly aligned for purposes of applying this ruling.

In reg. section 1.165-5(i), formal guidance is provided regarding the treatment of abandoned securities. While this guidance lends some certainty to the area, Peabody explores avenues by which taxpayers may deal with the issues not answered under these regulations, such as how one in fact abandons a security.

Suggested Citation:

Peabody, Brian A., Continuing Questions Regarding Worthless Securities (November 10, 2008). Tax Notes, Vol. 121, No. 6, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1297459
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies