Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Standard Setting and Inspection for U.S. Public Companies: A Critical Assessment and Recommendations for Fundamental Change

Accounting Horizons, June 2009

32 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2008 Last revised: 10 Feb 2009

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Mark H. Taylor

University of South Florida, Muma College of Business, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 28, 2009

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) established the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) to oversee the public accounting firms that audit publicly traded companies in the U.S. In this commentary we outline why we believe the PCAOB's audit standard setting and inspection models are inefficient and dysfunctional. We assert that the Board's ability to achieve its mission is limited by its early choices, together with its incentives, organizational composition, and structure. We support our assertions with a number of indicators of serious problems and flaws in the current approach. We also present high-level recommendations for change for policy makers, regulators, and leaders in the profession to consider in developing better approaches to audit standard setting, inspection, and enforcement.

Keywords: Auditing Standards Setting, Audit Inspection, PCAOB, Accounting Profession

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Prawitt, Douglas F. and Taylor, Mark H., Audit Standard Setting and Inspection for U.S. Public Companies: A Critical Assessment and Recommendations for Fundamental Change (January 28, 2009). Accounting Horizons, June 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1297525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
We also note that most other major standard setters in the accounting/auditing arena (e.g., FASB, ASB, IASB, IAASB, and COSO) include at least one academic as a voting board member
That some aspects of the PCAOB's charter might be less than suboptimal is not surprising, as aspects of the final SOX legislation enacted in July 2002 were hastily developed, in what has been characterized by Kinney (2005) as a "fire-alarm" approach to regulation
As Arthur J. Radin Posted: 2007
However, there have been few critiques of the design and implementation of the PCAOB Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Artmore , K Betz , D M Mead
Benefits and Challenges of Working with other Standard Setters
Journal of Government Financial Management Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
669
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,762
RANK
89,709
7 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies