Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Brief History of U.S. Bankruptcy Law & Policy for Consumers and Businesses

GOVERNING AMERICA: MAJOR POLICIES AND DECISIONS OF FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT, Paul J. Quirk, William Cunion, eds., Facts on File, 2009

12 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2008 Last revised: 24 Nov 2008

Jason J. Kilborn

University of Illinois Chicago School of Law

Date Written: November 16, 2008

Abstract

In 2009, Facts on File will release a major scholarly reference work on public policy in the United States, a three-volume collection entitled Governing America: Major Policies and Decisions of Federal, State, and Local Government. The work will deal with approximately 150 areas of public policy, ranging from abortion to monetary policy, and space exploration to bilingual education, covering not only landmark statutes and major programs at the federal level, but also key executive and judicial decisions and some important policies of state and local governments. This paper is the contribution on bankruptcy law and policy. Beginning with an overview of the goals and policies of bankruptcy in the United States, it traces the development of key issues such as federalism (with the rise of a unified federal bankruptcy law in the 1800s), separation of powers (especially in the allocation of judicial power to the new Bankruptcy Courts in the 1980s), the growing pains in the 1990s relating to both consumer and business bankruptcy, and the most salient themes of the reforms of 2005, especially in terms of their impact on bankruptcy judges, bankruptcy lawyers, and individual debtors. The contribution concludes on a positive note with observations about the renewed U.S. dedication to international cooperation in the new Chapter 15 of the Bankruptcy Code.

Suggested Citation:

Kilborn, Jason J., A Brief History of U.S. Bankruptcy Law & Policy for Consumers and Businesses (November 16, 2008). GOVERNING AMERICA: MAJOR POLICIES AND DECISIONS OF FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT, Paul J. Quirk, William Cunion, eds., Facts on File, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1302388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Barry E Adler
Foundations of Bankruptcy Posted: 2005
Crossref
Douglas G Baird
Elements of Bankruptcy Posted: 2006
Crossref
Edward J. Janger
Crystals and Mud in Bankruptcy Law: Judicial Competence and Statutory Design
Arizona Law Review, Vol. 43, No. 3, 2001, Stanford/Yale Jr. Faculty Forum Paper No. 01-09 Pages: 69 Posted: 20 Mar 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas Jackson
The Logic and Limits of Bankruptcy Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,077
RANK
162,563
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies