Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Merger Accounting be Reconsidered?: A Discussion Based on the Chinese Approach to Accounting for Business Combinations

Università degli Studi di Brescia Working Paper No. 91

43 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2008 Last revised: 5 Dec 2012

Charles Richard Baker

Adelphi University - School of Business

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Qiusheng Zhang

School of Economics and Management, Beijing Jiaotong University

Date Written: November 17, 2008

Abstract

In 2006, the China Accounting Standards Committee (CASC) issued its Statement No. 20, which permits both the purchase and pooling of interests (or merger) method of accounting for business combinations. The decision of the CASC in Statement No. 20 stands in contrast to the decisions taken by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) which both eliminated the pooling of interests method. As a result of the issuance of CASC 20, along with similar pronouncements by the Japanese standard setters and other standards setting bodies, the goal of harmonizing international accounting standards has been faced with a lack of convergence in the area of accounting for business combinations. In this paper we examine the reasons for this lack of convergence in order to develop a reconciled framework. In particular, the Chinese standards setters have sought to develop an approach to accounting for business combinations which distinguishes between instances where the combining entities are under common control or not under common control. Using a relatively narrow definition of common control, both the FASB and the IASB have excluded business combinations among entities under common control from the scope of their respective pronouncements. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the reasons for the distinctly different approach taken by the Chinese accounting standards setters by comparing the provisions of FASB 141, IFRS 3 and CASC 20. Our analysis will show that the technical differences between the standards are based on different understandings of the underlying economics of business combinations (Anthony, 1987), which leads in turn to different representations of the combination process. We believe that a forthright recognition of these differences may lead to a reconsideration of the pooling of interests and merger methods in a new comprehensive framework.

Keywords: business combinations, mergers and acquisitions, purchase method, pooling of interests method, international accounting convergence, fair value accounting model, historical cost accounting model

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M44, M47, O16

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Charles Richard and Biondi, Yuri and Zhang, Qiusheng, Should Merger Accounting be Reconsidered?: A Discussion Based on the Chinese Approach to Accounting for Business Combinations (November 17, 2008). Università degli Studi di Brescia Working Paper No. 91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1303636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1303636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Ad Mof -
Explanations of the Enterprise Accounting Standards. Beijing: The People's Publishing House Posted: 2007
W Aiken , W Lu , X.-D Ji
The new accounting standard in China: a critical analysis
Perspectives on Accounting and Finance in China , p. 159 - 177 Posted: 1995
N R Anthony
Tell It Like It Was: A Conceptual Framework For Financial Accounting Posted: 1983
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Load more
6 Citations
Yuri Biondi
Ownership (Lost) and Corporate Control: An Enterprise Entity Perspective
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium , volume 10 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Hendrik Sander
Accounting for Goodwill: A Critical Analysis of the Impairment-Only Approach
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium Posted: 2024
Crossref
Xinyun Miao , Hiroshi Shuto , Noriyuki Tsunogaya
Impact of Voluntary IFRS Adoption on Accounting Figures: Evidence from Japan
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium Posted: 2023
Crossref
António Martins , Cristina Sá , Daniel Taborda
Fair Value and Corporate Taxation: Out through the Door, Back through the Window?
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 479 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
863
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,595
RANK
64,232
6 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of SFAS No. 141 on the Transparency of Business Combination Reporting: Evidence from the Initial Year of Implementation

By Natalia M. Mintchik

The Governance of Intangibles: Rethinking Financial Reporting and the Board of Directors

By Yuri Biondi and Antoine Reberioux

Rediscovering Board Expertise: Legal Implications of the Empirical Literature

By Lawrence A. Cunningham

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies