Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All Offshore - The Sprat, the Mackeral, Accounting Firms and the State in Globalization

25 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2008 Last revised: 9 Apr 2009

Prem Sikka

Essex Business School

Hugh Willmott

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Date Written: November 20, 2008

Abstract

This paper explores some trajectories in the relationship between the state and accounting firms. When, in the mid-1990s, major firms considered the UK state to be insufficiently responsive to their lobbying for a limitation of their liability, pressures were exerted on the UK government by privately arranging for the drafting of a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Bill. The intention was to persuade the government of Jersey, a small offshore financial centre, to enact the law so as to create a favourable liability regime. This strategic manoeuvre, we suggest, is illustrative of accounting firms' long history of "entrepreneurialism" in pursuit of a more benign and/or financially beneficial regulatory environment. The paper offers a perspective on the state-capital relationship in which account is taken of the globalisation of economic activity including the expansion of accounting services in the context of the emergence of offshore financial centres. To address the significance of the state-accounting firms relationship, attention is drawn to a number of liability concessions granted to auditing firms by the UK state before providing details of how the firms coopted and mobilised the authorities in Jersey in pursuit of a more advantageous regulatory regime.

Keywords: Accounting Firms, Offshore Financial Centres, Entrepreneurialism, Limited Liability, Regulatory Regime, Globalization

Suggested Citation:

Sikka, Prem and Willmott, Hugh, All Offshore - The Sprat, the Mackeral, Accounting Firms and the State in Globalization (November 20, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1304599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1304599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Limited Liability Partnerships and other hybrid business entities
Alberta Law Review Posted: 1998
P Arnold , P Sikka
Globalization and the State-Profession Relationship: The case of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 475 - 499 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Bhagwati
Defense of Globalization Posted: 2004
Reform of Auditor Liability
Big Eight Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,481
RANK
413,954
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies