Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Risk Reporting by the World's Top Banks: Evidence on the Diversity of Reporting Practice and the Implications for Accounting Harmonisation

37 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2009 Last revised: 25 Jan 2009

Margaret Woods

Aston Business School

Kevin Dowd

Nottingham University Business School (NUBS)

Christopher Humphrey

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 28, 2008

Abstract

The increasing adoption of international accounting standards and global convergence of accounting regulations is frequently heralded as serving to reduce diversity in financial reporting practice. In a process said to be driven in large part by the interests of international business and global financial markets, one might expect the greatest degree of convergence to be found amongst the world's largest multinational financial corporations.

This paper challenges such claims and presumptions. Its content analysis of longitudinal data for the period 2000-2006 reveals substantial, on going diversity in the market risk disclosure practices, both numerical and narrative, of the world's top-25 banks. The significance of such findings is reinforced by the sheer scale of the banking sector's risk exposures that have been subsequently revealed in the current global financial crisis. The variations in disclosure practices documented in the paper apply both across and within national boundaries, leading to a firm conclusion that, at least in terms of market risk reporting, progress towards international harmonisation remains rather more apparent than real.

Keywords: market risk, risk reporting, world's top banks, accounting harmonisation

JEL Classification: G21, M41, M44, M47, N20

Suggested Citation:

Woods, Margaret and Dowd, Kevin and Humphrey, Christopher, Market Risk Reporting by the World's Top Banks: Evidence on the Diversity of Reporting Practice and the Implications for Accounting Harmonisation (November 28, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk reporting in UK FTSE annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Audit Issues when Financial Market Conditions are Difficult and Credit Facilities may be Restricted
Bulletin Posted: 2008
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors
International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Bank , England
Financial Stability Report Posted: 2008-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,235
RANK
67,908
10 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evaluation of Value-at-Risk Models Using Historical Data

By Darryll Hendricks

How Accurate are Value-at-Risk Models at Commercial Banks

By Jeremy Berkowitz and James M. O'brien

The Predictive Ability of Several Models of Exchange Rate Volatility

By Kenneth D. West and Dongchul Cho

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies