Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FASB and IASB: Dependence Despite Independence

Virginia Law & Business Review, Vol. 3, pp. 275-309, 2008

35 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Jun 2015

Andreas Martin Fleckner

Humboldt University of Berlin - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Abstract

Most regulatory bodies are either powerful or independent. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are both — at least in theory. This paper argues that in practice, the two boards are less powerful and less independent than many critics claim. Both the FASB and the IASB face outside pressure, especially from politics, and both have made concessions to please their constituencies. Plato's famous philosopher kings illustrate why: without rulemaking powers, accounting experts will never be as independent as if they were legislators.

Note: This article is based on a briefing paper prepared for the EU-US Financial Services Roundtable (2005) and on a presentation held at the Future of IASB-Funding Conference (2006).

Keywords: FASB, IASB, IAS, IFRS, accounting, internationalization, legal harmonization, standardization

JEL Classification: F50, G15, G18, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fleckner, Andreas Martin, FASB and IASB: Dependence Despite Independence. Virginia Law & Business Review, Vol. 3, pp. 275-309, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1310290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Paul B W Miller , Rodney J Redding &amp; Paul R , The Bahnson , Fasb
For further reading, see
THE PEOPLE, THE PROCESS, AND THE POLITICS
Robert Van Riper , Setting Standards For Financial , Reporting
providing valuable insights from a retired senior staff member of the FASB) Posted: 1994
I R
Posted: 2008
Crossref
Id
The Foundation does not further any of the other purposes permitted under this subsection , volume 501
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,787
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,766
RANK
6,689
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies