Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Accounting in Eighteen Century Spain: The Royal Textile Factory of Ezcaray

Accounting History, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2001

Posted: 13 Dec 2008

Begona Prieto

University of Burgos - Department of Economics

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

According to a growing body of literature, sophisticated costing techniques were used in the early stages of (Fleischman and Parker, 1991; 1997), or before (Carmona et al., 1997), the Industrial Revolution. The investigation of cost accounting practices in medium Spanish factories that did not operate as monopolies should provide more insights into the development of cost accounting in the XVIII century and into the use that was made of it. This paper reports on archival evidence of the use of cost accounting in the case of the Royal Textile Factory of Ezcaray between 1767 and 1785. It becomes apparent that a sophisticated knowledge of cost accounting existed in this company. Other findings from this case are the important role of accountants in cost accounting, the likelihood of recurrent cost management, the lack of integration between cost and financial accounting and the use of cost accounting in a poorly managed company that, finally, went into bankruptcy.

Suggested Citation:

Prieto, Begona and Larrinaga, Carlos, Cost Accounting in Eighteen Century Spain: The Royal Textile Factory of Ezcaray (December 9, 2008). Accounting History, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313823
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,708
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies