Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost and Management Accounting in Pre-Industrial Revolution Spain

Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2005

38 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2008 Last revised: 26 Mar 2014

Fernando Gutierrez

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Miriam Núñez-Torrado

University of Seville

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

In traditional Anglo-Saxon accounting historiography the birth of sophisticated management accounting practices was dated at the end of the 19th century [Jonhson and Kaplan, 1987]. However, some more recent investigations have questioned this idea and demonstrate the existence of sophisticated management accounting and control techniques before the industrial revolution in differing contexts such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Spain. Fleischman and Parker [1991] have demonstrated that these practices were present in a significant number of British companies. However, evidence for Spain is based on isolated case studies. While case studies are essential to explain how these techniques were used, there has been no research to assess their frequency in Spain before the industrial revolution. By examining files concerning 13 large and mediumsized 18th century Spanish companies, this paper corroborates Fleischman and Barker's [1991] thesis. It reveals that knowledge of sophisticated cost accounting methods was fairly widespread in Spain during the 18th century. Interestingly, however, the knowledge and use of these techniques were not connected to economic success and to the industrial revolution, as was the case in the United Kingdom.

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Fernando and Larrinaga, Carlos and Núñez-Torrado, Miriam, Cost and Management Accounting in Pre-Industrial Revolution Spain (December 9, 2008). Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Audiencia de México. Files 1013 Posted: 1123
Crossref
Sección de Secretaría y Superintendencia de Hacienda. Files 755-758 , volume 787
Archivo Histórico , Nacional
E Larruga
Memorias Políticas y Económicas sobre los Frutos, Comercio, Fábricas y Minas de España, 1995 reprint by the Institución Fernando el Católico , volume 12 Posted: 1794
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,963
RANK
560,422
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies