Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How the Global Credit and Economic Crises are Affecting Accounting and Financial Reporting Issues: An Overview of Key Implications from a Credit Perspective

Moody's Global Credit Research, December 2008

12 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2008 Last revised: 15 Feb 2009

Mark LaMonte

Moody's Investors Service

Wallace Enman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wesley Smyth

Moody's Corporation

Donald Robertson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jason M. Cuomo

Moody's Investors Service

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

The current global credit crisis has focused a great deal of scrutiny - by investors, the media, governments and others - on various aspects of accounting and financial reporting. The focus was initially on accounting issues related to financial institutions, particularly questions involving fair value accounting, securitization, and other off-balance sheet structures. However, the spillover of the credit crisis into a broader global economic downturn brings with it a number of accounting and financial reporting related issues and risks in several other areas. These other areas of financial reporting include the following:

- Defined benefit pensions, - Restructuring and impairment charges, - Derivative instruments and hedging, and - Income taxes

In this special comment, we discuss why certain areas of accounting have been receiving significant attention, provide an update on recent developments and changes to accounting rules, and highlight areas of accounting and financial reporting risk that we believe should receive particular analyst and investor attention in the coming months. Some key matters discussed in detail in the body of the report include:

- Fair Value - issues related to the valuation of financial instruments will continue to be a key area of focus because of depressed asset values and persistent illiquidity in certain markets. We expect to see financial institutions taking more other than temporary impairment charges in the coming quarters.

- Defined Benefit Pensions - the funded status of defined benefit pension plans has been significantly impacted by investment losses in 2008. Increased obligations for underfunded defined benefit pensions will stress certain of Moody's key leverage metrics, and cash funding requirements in 2009 and beyond could exacerbate liquidity stress for some firms.

- Impairment and Restructuring - we expect an increasing number of firms will be taking charges for impairment and restructuring in coming quarters. From a credit perspective, these charges are particularly problematic when they trip financial covenants in indenture agreements.

- Off-Balance Sheet Accounting - investors will have enhanced disclosures related to off-balance sheet structures for year-end 2008 for companies following U.S. GAAP. Fast-tracked standard setting projects could bring many securitization and other off-balance sheet structures back on balance sheet as soon as the first quarter of 2010.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G23, G33

Suggested Citation:

LaMonte, Mark and Enman, Wallace and Smyth, Wesley and Robertson, Donald and Cuomo, Jason M., How the Global Credit and Economic Crises are Affecting Accounting and Financial Reporting Issues: An Overview of Key Implications from a Credit Perspective (December 9, 2008). Moody's Global Credit Research, December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,065
RANK
42,846
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies