Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Reaction to Arthur Andersen's Role in the Enron Scandal: Loss of Reputation or Confounding Effects?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 46, No. 2-3, pp. 279-293, December 2008

Posted: 19 Dec 2008

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Richard A. Price

University of Oklahoma

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December, 18 2008

Abstract

This paper tests the hypothesis that negative client stock returns following the revelation that Enron documents had been shredded are attributable to confounding effects as opposed to a loss of Andersen's reputation. We find that a sharp decline in oil prices along with differences in the industry composition of the Andersen and Big 4 client portfolios combine to produce significantly more negative returns for Andersen clients relative to Big 4 clients, and for Andersen's Houston office clients relative to its clients in other locations. The market reaction to two other Enron-related events also offers little support for a reputation effect.

Keywords: Auditor reputation, Arthur Andersen, Event studies, Earnings response coefficients

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Karen K. and Price, Richard A. and Rountree, Brian Robert, The Market Reaction to Arthur Andersen's Role in the Enron Scandal: Loss of Reputation or Confounding Effects? (December, 18 2008). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 46, No. 2-3, pp. 279-293, December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1317867
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,320
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies