Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: Evidence from Firms' Response to the Enron Shock

Chicago Booth School of Business Research Paper No. 08-26

65 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2008 Last revised: 20 Mar 2009

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Catherine M. Schrand

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: March 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the link between disclosure and the cost of capital. We exploit an exogenous cost of capital shock created by the Enron scandal in Fall 2001 and analyze firms' disclosure responses to this shock. These tests are opposite to the typical research design that analyzes cost of capital responses to disclosure changes. In reversing the tests and using an exogenous shock, we mitigate concerns about omitted variables in traditional cross-sectional disclosure studies. We estimate shocks to firms' betas around the Enron events and the ensuing transparency crisis. Our analysis shows that these beta shocks are associated with increased disclosure. Firms expand the number of pages of their annual 10-K filings, notably the sections containing the financial statements and footnotes. The increase in disclosure is particularly pronounced for firms that have positive cost of capital shocks and larger financing needs. We also find that firms respond with additional interim disclosures (e.g., 8-K filings) and that these disclosures are complementary to the 10-K disclosures. Finally, we show that firms' disclosure responses reduce firms' costs of capital and hence the impact of the transparency crisis.

Keywords: Transparency, Disclosure, Cost of capital, Capital-market shocks, Financial crisis, Annual reports, Accounting scandals

JEL Classification: G01, G12, G14, G30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Leuz, Christian and Schrand, Catherine M., Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: Evidence from Firms' Response to the Enron Shock (March 2009). Chicago Booth School of Business Research Paper No. 08-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1319646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1319646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
The Effects of Beta, Bid-Ask Spread, Residual Risk and Size on Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Asthana , S Balsam , S Sankaraguruswamy
Differential Response of Small versus Large Investors to 10K Filings on Edgar
Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Ball
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C Barry , S Brown
Differential Information and the Small Firm Effect
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 13 , p. 283 - 294 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,195
RANK
15,128
3 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies