Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balance Sheet in the Vision of the American Conceptual Frame FASB

7 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2009

Veronica Grosu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ionel Bostan

Stefan cel Mare University

Date Written: January 8, 2009

Abstract

The American conceptual frame FASB has as a point star in the approach of the balance sheet the equality of the assets, that reflects the resources of the enterprise, on one hand, and on the other hand, the total of the debts and the equity ownership, that reflected the structure of financing of the society. This component of the financial statements is found in the financial statements of the enterprises that have adopted the norms of the American conceptual frame under different forms: Balance sheet, statement of the financial position or the statement of the Financial Condition.

According to the standard SFAC 5 Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises it is underlined the fact that a limit of the balance sheet is that it is made starting from the threshold of significance, by which the insignificant elements do not appear in the balance sheet, but this limit is over passed by the presentation of the supplementary information in notes.

Keywords: FASB, IASB, conceptual accounting frameworks, financial statements

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Grosu, Veronica and Bostan, Ionel, Balance Sheet in the Vision of the American Conceptual Frame FASB (January 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324894
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
reflecting the differences existent in the economic performances and also the risks of the business environment. In the end, we can say that the efforts for harmonizing the national systems and the global system are determined by the new configuration of the international economic relationships
D A Alexander
European True an fair view
The European Accouting Review Posted: 1993
Crossref
G Bailey , K Wild
International Accounting Standards a guide to preparing accounts
ABC Professional Information Posted: 2000
Barbara Wheling -The crisis of fordism and the international harmonization of accounting standards Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
375,525
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies