Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statements between Professional and Settled Standardization

Posted: 10 Jan 2009

Dorel Mates

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 10, 2009

Abstract

Financial statements and accountancy in its whole, constitutes a real means of communication in the economical-financial world. This always explains the fact that lately we testify the most important confrontations and debates on the accountancy level, to all these we must add the financial scandals that have taken place the past few years inside some much known organizations. This makes that the issue of finding a common accountancy language is a priority for all countries, with the purpose of making easier the economical and financial communication in the world.

Keywords: accountant process, financial statement, professional standardization, settled standardization, economic decisions

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mates, Dorel, Financial Statements between Professional and Settled Standardization (January 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
741,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies