Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balance Sheet: The Reflection of the Faithful Image of the Company

Posted: 10 Jan 2009

Dorel Mates

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 10, 2009

Abstract

Since quality, transparency and comparability of financial information's reported by companies affect the informational and a locative efficiency of capital market, European Union has carried out a global accounting harmonization process that has been achieved by setting common accounting standards (IAS/IFRS). The basic idea of this harmonization process is to improve the relevant characteristics of information's made available by the firms. Although we think this accounting harmonization process is important and it can be the right way to improve informational efficiency of financial markets, we think it is necessary to further investigate some crucial topics. New international accounting standards are very close to the experience of market oriented countries (U.S. and Great Britain) where accounting information's address investors.

Keywords: balance sheet, financial information's, harmonization process

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mates, Dorel, The Balance Sheet: The Reflection of the Faithful Image of the Company (January 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,086
RANK
411,653
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies