Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profitable Pricing Decisions

Economics of Money, Banking and Finance, First International Conference on Social Sciences, Izmir, Turkey, Vol. 5, pp. 21-22, August 2008

6 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2009

Tureac Cornelia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Turtureanu Anca Gabriela

Universitatea Danubius

Date Written: January 13, 2009

Abstract

In most companies, there is ongoing conflict between managers in charge of covering costs (finance and accounting) and managers in charge of satisfying customers (marketing and sales). Accounting journals warn on prices that fail to cover full costs, while marketing journals argue that customer willingness-to-pay must be the sole driver of prices. The conflict between these views wastes company resources and leads to pricing decisions that are imperfect compromises. Profitable pricing involves an integration of costs and customer value. To achieve that integration, however, both need to let go of misleading ideas and to form a common vision of what profitability drives.

Keywords: decision, pricing, cost, profitable pricing

JEL Classification: E30, D40, M40, M30

Suggested Citation:

Cornelia, Tureac and Anca Gabriela, Turtureanu, Profitable Pricing Decisions (January 13, 2009). Economics of Money, Banking and Finance, First International Conference on Social Sciences, Izmir, Turkey, Vol. 5, pp. 21-22, August 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
E Tureac , ; E Tureac
Academic Foundation Publishing-House, Galati Posted: 2007
A G Turtureanu , A C Ioan
Current Management -From Theory to Mathematical Holding Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,741
RANK
467,335
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies