Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Dissolution of a Nation State: The Price of Scotland

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Crawford Spence

Concordia University

Date Written: January 13, 2009

Abstract

This paper seeks to shed new empirical light on the role of Accounting in shaping historical events. This is pursued by way of an analysis of the formation of Britain via the treaty of union between Scotland and England in 1707. That analysis is split up into two distinct periods, whose events overlap and are weaved together here through a multifarious accounting discourse. Firstly, in negotiating the Treaty of Union in 1706-7, the sum of (English pound) 398,085 10s was offered as an inducement to the Scottish political and financial elite. This 'Price of Scotland' was arrived at using a complicated discounted cash flow calculation, legitimised by 'experts' and succeeded in mystifying to some extent the myopia and self-interest at the heart of the union negotiations. Secondly, one of the articles of the Treaty ascribed a key accountability role to Scots customs and excise revenue collectors post-union in order to ensure that future sums would be paid to 'Scotland'. However, a failure to discharge this accountability meant that said money could not be paid. Out of this failure of accountability emerged the Royal Bank of Scotland in 1727, an entity that was to have a significant impact on Scotland's future economic development.

Keywords: History, Treaty of Union 1707, Britain, Discounted Cash Flow, Accountability

Suggested Citation:

Spence, Crawford, Accounting for the Dissolution of a Nation State: The Price of Scotland (January 13, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327158
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies