Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Footnotes Aren't Enough: The Impact of Pension Accounting on Stock Values

FEDS Working Paper No. 2008-04

28 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2009

Olivia S. Mitchell

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School, Pension Research Council; University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Steven A. Sharpe

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

S. Blake Nesbitt

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Julia Lynn Coronado

Barclays Capital

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

Some research has suggested that companies with defined benefit (DB) pensions are sometimes significantly misvalued by the market. This is because the measures of pension cost and pension net liabilities embedded in financial statements, taken at face value, can provide a very misleading picture of pension finances. The more pertinent information on pension finances is relegated to footnotes, but this might not receive much attention from portfolio managers. But dramatic swings in the financial conditions of large DB plans around the turn of the decade focused widespread attention on pension accounting practices, and dissatisfaction with current accounting standards has recently prompted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to take up a project revamp DB pension accounting. Arguably, the increased attention should have made investors wise to the informational problems, thereby eliminating systematic mispricing in recent years. We test this proposition and conclude that investors continued to misvalue DB pensions, inducing sizable valuation errors in the stock of many companies. Our findings suggest that FASB's current reform efforts could substantially aid the market's ability to value firms with DB pensions.

Keywords: Pension assets, pension accounting, value-relevance, FAS 87

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Mitchell, Olivia S. and Sharpe, Steven A. and Nesbitt, S. Blake and Coronado, Julia Lynn, Footnotes Aren't Enough: The Impact of Pension Accounting on Stock Values (January 1, 2008). FEDS Working Paper No. 2008-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1327060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Fischer Black
The Tax Consequences of Long-Run Pension Policy
Financial Analysts' Journal , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 1980-07
Crossref
David M Blitzer , E Robert , Howard Friedman , Silverblatt
Measures of Corporate Earnings
Standard & Poor's Posted: 2001
Jeremy I Bulow , Robert Morck , Lawrence Summers
How does the Market Value Unfunded Pension Liabilities?
In Issues in Pension Economics Posted: 1987
Crossref
Mirko Cardinale
Corporate Pension Funding and Credit Spreads Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Jan D. Fasshauer , Martin Glaum
The Value Relevance of Pension Fair Values and Uncertainty
53 Pages · Posted: 19 Oct 2009 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2012 · Downloads: 621
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashby Monk
Pension Buyouts: What Can We Learn from the UK Experience?
Center for Retirement Research at Boston College Working Paper No. 2009-19 · 40 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2009 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anne M. Garvey , Bridget McNally , Thomas O'Connor
Valuation of Defined Benefit Pension Schemes in IAS 19 Employee Benefits – True and Fair?
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Vol. 27, pp. 31-42, 2020 · 16 Pages · Posted: 13 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 258
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,921
RANK
151,925
3 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies