Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Discretionary Financial Reporting Behavior Following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 1-26, Winter 2010

42 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2009 Last revised: 29 Jul 2010

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2009

Abstract

We examine the effect of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on the extent of aggressive/conservative reporting behavior of public companies. SOX imposes considerably greater potential penalties on CEO/CFOs who engage in financial wrongdoing; therefore, risk averse managers are likely to report lower earnings by reducing discretionary accruals following SOX. Our results indicate that (1) Canadian firms subject to SOX are more conservative in financial reporting in the post-SOX period as evidenced by lower signed discretionary accruals, the Penman and Zhang (2002) conservatism measure, and the differential earnings persistence conservatism measure; (2) the impact of SOX on firms' conservative reporting through discretionary accruals in the post-SOX period is not homogeneous; it is more pronounced for firms that were aggressive in the pre-SOX period.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Financial reporting behavior, Conservatism, Discretionary accruals

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Zhou, Jian, Changes in Discretionary Financial Reporting Behavior Following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (January 1, 2009). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 1-26, Winter 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Becker , M Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P Beckett
New SEC order forces executives to swear by their numbers
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2002-07-05
E S Browning
Dow Industrials decline after soaring on Friday Posted: 2002-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
745
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,145
RANK
31,922
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies