Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Vol. 106, No. 4, pp. 1009-1014, January 27, 2009

Posted: 21 Jan 2009

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

John W. Dickhaut

Chapman University (Deceased)

Gary Hecht

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kristy L. Towry

Emory University

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January, 19 2009

Abstract

We experimentally demonstrate a causal link between recordkeeping and reciprocal exchange. Recordkeeping improves memory of past interactions in a complex exchange environment, which promotes reputation formation and decision coordination. Economies with recordkeeping exhibit a beneficially altered economic history where the risks of exchanging with strangers are substantially lessened. Our findings are consistent with prior assertions that complex and extensive reciprocity requires sophisticated memory to store information on past transactions. We offer fresh insights on this research by scientifically demonstrating that reciprocity can be facilitated by information storage external to the brain. This is consistent with the archaeological record, which suggests that pre-historic transaction records and the invention of writing for recordkeeping were linked to increased complexity in human interaction.

Keywords: accounting, economic institutions, trust, memory, image score

JEL Classification: B25, C91, D80, M40, N00

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Dickhaut, John and Hecht, Gary and Towry, Kristy L. and Waymire, Gregory B., Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity (January, 19 2009). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Vol. 106, No. 4, pp. 1009-1014, January 27, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1330060
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,971
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies