Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One Cheer for Credit Rating Agencies: How the Mark-to-Market Accounting Debate Highlights the Case for Rating-Dependent Regulation

60 S.C. L. Rev. 749 (2009)

27 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2009 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013

John P. Hunt

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: January 22, 2009

Abstract

Mark-to-market (or fair value) accounting rules for financial assets came under sustained attack in 2008, with commentators blaming these rules for up to 70 percent of the financial crisis. The underlying argument was that reporting declining market values for assets would force sales of those assets, which in turn would depress market values and force more sales in an accounting-driven death spiral. A review of major financial failures and bailouts during the crisis casts grave doubt on this assertion. Although marking to market as provided by collateral provisions of bilateral trading contracts has been important, no major firms appear to have been done in by accounting rules.

The scenario of an externally triggered death spiral would be much more plausible if regulators relied principally on market marks to determine capital requirements for regulated firms. In that case, the reported values would actually have bite and force sales. This is important because regulation based on credit spreads - mark-to-market regulation - is the principal alternative that has been offered to the use of credit ratings in financial regulation. The specter of a regulatory death spiral triggered by mark-to-market regulation highlights the theoretical problems involved in regulating based on unadjusted credit spreads. If capital regulation is going to be based on credit risk, regulators cannot escape from the need for human credit risk analysis by relying simply on market spreads. There is likely to be a continuing regulatory need for the discipline rating agencies are supposed to practice.

Keywords: rating agencies, mark to market accounting, fair value accounting, capital regulation, financial crisis

JEL Classification: G18, G28, M41, M44, G33

Suggested Citation:

Hunt, John P., One Cheer for Credit Rating Agencies: How the Mark-to-Market Accounting Debate Highlights the Case for Rating-Dependent Regulation (January 22, 2009). 60 S.C. L. Rev. 749 (2009), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1331633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Eric Dash
Citigroup to Halt Dividend and Curb Pay Posted: 2008-11-24
Crossref
Dash
Citigroup to Halt Dividend, supra note
&amp; Diamond , Kashyap
Crossref
See Jonathan Weil , Freddie , Fannie
GSEs' fair-value balance sheets show net asset values "much lower than what the government lets them show as capital, or what the accounting rules let them report as shareholder equity
BLOOMBERG.COM Posted: 2008-07-28
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
655
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,350
RANK
92,213
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Parts are Greater than the Whole: How Securitization of Divisible Interests Can Revolutionize Structured Finance and Open the Capital Markets to Middle-Market Companies

By Steven L. Schwarcz

Enron and the Use and Abuse of Special Purpose Entities in Corporate Structures

By Steven L. Schwarcz

Commercial Trusts as Business Organizations: An Invitation to Comparatists

By Steven L. Schwarcz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies