Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Integrated Financial and Real System of National Accounts for the United States: Does it Presage the Financial Crisis?

NBER Working Paper No. w14663

17 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2009 Last revised: 27 Jul 2022

Michael Palumbo

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Jonathan A. Parker

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: January 2009

Abstract

The initial implementation of the System of National Accounts (1993) for the United States by the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Federal Reserve Board has two significant advantages for economists. First, the SNA are organized according to sectors of the economy defined by economic agents: firms, financial institutions, consumers, governments and the rest of the world. Second, the accounts integrate real and financial information, so that one can track not only production of, income from, and use of output, but also net lending, net borrowing, and net worth by sector. We exploit these two features in the SNA accounts to examine US economic history leading up to the financial crisis of 2007 and recession of 2008. First, the SNA data show recent increases in leverage in the household sector. We track the household shift to a net lending position through the capital and current accounts of the household sector and then the other SNA sectors. Second, in the financial businesses sector, the accounts largely miss the rise in exposure to the US housing market as well as the critical factors that significantly spread and amplified the housing-market related changes throughout the financial system and the real economy. Finally we present three ways in which SNA-type accounts could be improved to presage a similar future crisis.

Suggested Citation:

Palumbo, Michael G. and Parker, Jonathan A., The Integrated Financial and Real System of National Accounts for the United States: Does it Presage the Financial Crisis? (January 2009). NBER Working Paper No. w14663, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1332602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Adrian , Tobias , Hyun Song Shin , Forthcoming
Liquidity and Leverage
Journal of Financial Intermediation
David Bowman , Daniel Covitz
Foundations of the Financial Market Turmoil Posted: 2008
Markus K Brunnermeier , Forthcoming
Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development, United Nations, and the World Bank
System of National Accounts Posted: 1993
Albert M Teplin , Rochelle Antoniewicz , Susan Hume Mcintosh , Michael G Palumbo , Genevieve Solomon , Charles , Ian Mead , Karin Moses , Brent Moulton , Dale W Jorgenson , J Steven Landefeld , William D Nordhaus
Integrated Macroeconomic Accounts for the United States: Draft SNA-USA
A New Architecture for the US National Accounts , p. 471 - 540 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,258
RANK
792,195
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects

By Yakov Amihud

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies