Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles of Cash Management from Indian Management Thought: Thirukkural

6 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2009

Chendrayan Chendroyaperumal

affiliation not provided to SSRN (deceased); Anna University of Technology Chennai - Saveetha Engineering College

Date Written: June 9, 2008

Abstract

Wise management of cash is essential for the survival and success of any business organization. Textbooks prescribe a set of principles for successful management of cash, a key component of working capital but the least productive for the firm holding it. This paper attempts to highlight the principles of cash management propounded in Thirukkural - an Indian work on management written more than 2000 years ago but very relevant, practicable and consistent with that of the modern thought!

Keywords: Cash Management, Working Capital, Financial Management, Thirukkural

JEL Classification: G11, G15, G31

Suggested Citation:

Chendroyaperumal, Chendrayan, Principles of Cash Management from Indian Management Thought: Thirukkural (June 9, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1336023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1336023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
W H Drew , Lazarus , J Thirukkural
Asian Educational Services Posted: 1996
M Y Khan , P K Jain
Financial Management: Texts, Problems and Cases, 4 th Edn Posted: 2005
I M Pandey , Management
Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
563
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,767
RANK
111,976
2 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies