Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Industry: World's Weakest Oligopoly?

72 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2009

Bernard Ascher

American Antitrust Institute (AAI)

Date Written: September 18, 2008

Abstract

The world's audit oligopoly is composed of four accounting firms: PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG, Ernst & Young, and Deloitte Touche Komatsu (the Big 4). These firms are in a strong position in that they audit the financial statements of nearly all the global public companies in the world and, arguably, are the only audit firms able to do so. They are huge, privately-owned, international networks with robust revenues, vast resources, and expertise. Yet they are heavily regulated by governments, and they are subject to massive lawsuits when investors and creditors suffer large losses due to fraud or error; these are their major weaknesses. Since the dual shocks of the collapse of Arthur Andersen (reducing the Big 5 to 4) and the enactment of stringent regulations by the U.S. Congress in 2002 in reaction to corporate accounting scandals, there is great concern in the financial community that another company in the oligopoly could be forced out of business, further reducing the choice of auditors for multinational corporations and causing disruptions in the marketplace. This paper reviews the effects of concentration on competition in the market for audits of major multinational corporations, as well as the effects on audit fees, audit quality, and the regulatory environment. It observes that competition is far less intense than in earlier years and that regulatory authorities are reluctant to take severe disciplinary actions against audit firms, but that the industry remains vulnerable to legal challenge. Global public companies will continue to face limited choice of auditors until smaller competitors or new competitors can build viable networks and reputations for high quality audits. The paper examines barriers to market entry and comments on proposals to promote greater competition, including liability limitations. It also reports on anticompetitive practices of major accounting firms in the past and the need for regulatory authorities to maintain constant vigilance to avoid any recurrence. Finally, responding to the question posed in the title, the paper concludes that considering the industry's market dominance, the relaxation of punitive actions by regulatory authorities and the availability of some forms of liability limitation, the audit industry may not be the ideal candidate for weakest oligopoly in the world.

Keywords: competition, oligopoly, antitrust, business organization, accounting firms, audit fees

JEL Classification: M49, L84, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ascher, Bernard, The Audit Industry: World's Weakest Oligopoly? (September 18, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1337105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1337105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,509
RANK
30,939
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Reform and the Big 4 Audit Firms

By Bernard Ascher and Albert Foer

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies