Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Reporting: The Spanish Tobacco Monopoly (1887-1986)

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Feb 2009

Macario Camara

University of Jaen

Eva Chamorro

University of Jaén

Alonso Moreno

University of Jaén

Date Written: January 29, 2009

Abstract

Stakeholder theory explains organisational responses to changing demands from constituents. Almost all accounting research drawing on stakeholder theory addresses social responsibility issues. In contrast, we examine how our focal firm, the Spanish tobacco monopoly, responded to stakeholders' demands through its annual reports over the century 1887-1986, that is, from the privatization of the firm's administration to the loss of monopolistic conditions as a consequence of Spain's entry into the European Economic Community. Our findings reveal how these reports reflected the changing importance of different categories of stakeholders as well as the alignment of financial reporting with organisational responses to stakeholders' demands. Throughout this period the firm's major strategic stakeholder was the state, and the dramatic changes in Spanish forms of government, as well as a change in the state's status vis-a-vis the firm (until 1945 as lessor of the monopoly, and thereafter also as a major shareholder) affected the amount and type of financial information in these reports; however, the strategy remained generally proactive until 1945 and accommodative thereafter. Other strategic stakeholder was the workers, and equally dramatic changes in Spanish labour activism affected the reporting of worker welfare programs. After Spain's democratization, society in general became a more important stakeholder, and reports began to address tobacco-related health concerns.

Keywords: stakeholder, annual reports, accounting history, tobacco monopoly, Spain

JEL Classification: J2, L12, L66, M41, N43, N44

Suggested Citation:

Camara, Macario and Chamorro, Eva and Moreno, Alonso, Stakeholder Reporting: The Spanish Tobacco Monopoly (1887-1986) (January 29, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1344223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,967
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies