Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study Regarding the Reality and Creativity of the Financial Performance of the Economic Entities

Cahier de la Recherche de lISC Paris CRISC No. 16: Actes du Colloque IFC 4 Investissement et Financement, 2007

10 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2009

Turlea Eugeniu

Independent

Ileana Nisulescu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stefanescu Aurelia

Independent

Ion Verboncu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mariana Vuta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rodica Gherghina

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Duca Ioana

Titu Maiorescu University

Carmen Trica

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Globalization has polarized the world, transforming the economic landscape. Geography is obsolete, financial flow increases everywhere at both national and global level, covering geographic regions that are a world apart, and economic entities have set as their primary objective the maximization of stock value. Given all the above the study with respect to the reality and creativity of the entities' financial performance, emphasizes the fact that financial performance may be disguised by professional accountants, who are endowed with "creativity" and "protecting" the accounting methods available.

Analyzing the traditional way financial performance of economic entities is reproduced, the profit and loss account, we had to wonder how real it was. The answer can only be imprecise: a financial performance that is as realistic as possible. Why? Because the liberty economic entities have to choose the treatments and accounting techniques leads to a misrepresentation of their actual financial performance.

In this sense, our research studies the impact that treatment and accounting policies (recommended by the International Accounting Standards and frequently used by Romanian economic entities) have on the financial performance mirrored by the profit and loss account.

Will the financial information receivers let themselves deceived by the craftsmanship of the management and professional accountants to build a "magical" financial performance? How long can be hidden and disguised the bad news regarding the low financial performance reflected in the profit and loss account? Not forever, of course, because there are also techniques and means for detecting these.

Our study highlights that in order to estimate the financial performance of the economic entities it is necessary to go beyond the results of the exercise, which can be deceiving, and study the economic, overall result as well as the treasury result.

The specialists' creativity and the possible options of international accounting policies and procedures make it advisable for us to pay a lot more attention to the information regarding the financial performance of economic entities.

Keywords: financial performance, economic result/global result, treasury result/treasury flows, techniques of creative accounting.

Suggested Citation:

Eugeniu, Turlea and Nisulescu, Ileana and Aurelia, Stefanescu and Verboncu, Ion and Vuta, Mariana and Gherghina, Rodica and Ioana, Duca and Trica, Carmen, Study Regarding the Reality and Creativity of the Financial Performance of the Economic Entities. Cahier de la Recherche de lISC Paris CRISC No. 16: Actes du Colloque IFC 4 Investissement et Financement, 2007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1347654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
J Audas , H Stolowy
Existe -t -il vraiment une comptabilité creative?
Le window-dressing ou l'habillage des bilans , p. 82 - 85 Posted: 1993
J J Bertolus
L'art de truquer un bilan, Science & vie économie n˚40n˚40 , p. 58 - 60 Posted: 1988
E Delesalle , F Delesalle
The Ten Commands of Accounting Economică Publishing House Bucharest Posted: 2003
M Didier
Comment les banques nettoient leur bilan, Option finance n ˚ 310
The Rules of the Game Humanitas Publishing House , p. 14 - 18 Posted: 1994-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,587
RANK
464,622
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies