Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When American Small Business Hit the Jackpot: Taxes, Politics and the History of Organizational Choice in the 1950s

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 6, 2008

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 09-04

60 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2009

Mirit Eyal

University of Alabama - School of Law

Date Written: February 23, 2009

Abstract

While many political developments affected American small businesses during the twentieth century, the enactment of Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code was of particular significance. For the first time Congress was inclined to, at least partially, eliminate the double tax burden. Following the S Corporation, state legislatures formed other hybrid entities and gradually reduced the barriers to limited liability and other non-tax characteristics of organizational choice. Today, we observe a steady increase in the number of hybrid entities, which indicates that people favor the pass-through approach for taxation. At the same time, it is apparent that the existence of different federal tax regimes still plays a significant role in investors' choice of action. This article begins with the question: How did the American small business community achieve political victory where large organizations had failed? Put differently, how was it that the little fellow accomplished the almost impossible -- the elimination of double taxation and permission to essentially choose his tax treatment -- when, for years, the business community was unsuccessful in its attempts to integrate corporate and individual taxation? By laying out the untold story behind the enactment of Subchapter S, this article argues that three major factors paved the way for the creation of the S Corporation: a genuine economic need to aid small business entrepreneurs in times of recession, strong political pressure from the business sector, and political elite - such as Wilbur Mills, who thought the moment was right to aid small concerns. The story of enacting Subchapter S in 1958 is more than adding another organizational tax choice. It serves as an example of Congress's way of thinking about tax policy as instrumental in implementing social and economic goals. It elucidates a more complex picture of how tax policy evolved in the postwar period. It also reveals one way in which political interest groups affected the process of legislative decision making.

Keywords: tax, history, small business, corporation, policy, legislation, Wilbur Mills

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Eyal, Mirit, When American Small Business Hit the Jackpot: Taxes, Politics and the History of Organizational Choice in the 1950s (February 23, 2009). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 6, 2008, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 09-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1348198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,065
RANK
377,395
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies