Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Undermined: The 1918 Check-the-Box Entity Classification Election

Proceedings of the 101st Annual Conference of the National Tax Association, p. 65, 2008

TJSL Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1350154

6 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2009 Last revised: 18 Aug 2010

Richard Winchester

Seton Hall Law School

Abstract

Ever since 1996, the government has allowed virtually any unincorporated business entity to choose whether it should be treated as a corporation for tax purposes. Widely referred to as the check-the-box entity classification regulations, these rules represent a dramatic break from the approach taken under the regulations they replaced. However, the idea of allowing a business virtually unrestricted freedom to choose its tax classification dates back to the Revenue Act of 1918, just five years after Congress enacted the permanent income tax.

This brief article recounts the story behind that first, relatively obscure, elective entity classification provision. It also explains how that provision and its modern day cousin may undermine certain basic notions of equity that any sound tax system should seek to advance.

Keywords: tax, entity classification, corporate tax, corporate tax history, business entities

JEL Classification: K10, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Winchester, Richard, Equity Undermined: The 1918 Check-the-Box Entity Classification Election. Proceedings of the 101st Annual Conference of the National Tax Association, p. 65, 2008, TJSL Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1350154, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1350154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
68A Stat. 3, repealed by Act of April 14 , p. 89 - 389 Posted: 1954
Revenue Act of 1913 § II(A)(2), 38 Stat
Id
joint-stock company or association, and every insurance company, organized in the United States, no matter how created or organized, not including partnerships
Id. § II
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
487,221
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Thomas Jefferson School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies