Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big-5 in New Millennium: The Transition to Multidisciplinary Service Provision

Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 9-21, 2000

Posted: 27 Apr 2009

Paul Andon

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Clinton Free

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Abstract

As the new millennium draws near, the business world is experiencing a number of radical changes on a global scale. Globalisation, information technology, increasing competitive pressures and changing international law have set the scene for a vastly changing business environment for the 21st century. The future prosperity of the accounting profession will depend on its ability to manage this change and to be prepared to adapt to capitalise on new opportunities. In particular, the Big-5, with their immense size and resource pool, are well placed to respond to and take advantage of these changes in the global business environment. The impact of the response of the Big-5 to the anticipated market parameters of the new millennium raises a number of interesting issues in terms of the impact they have on the various segments of both the accounting profession and the entire business community.

Suggested Citation:

Andon, Paul and Free, Clinton, The Big-5 in New Millennium: The Transition to Multidisciplinary Service Provision. Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 9-21, 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1353050
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
832
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies