Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trans-Tasman Taxation of Companies and Their Shareholders 1945-2005

60 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2009

C. John Taylor

University of New South Wales - School of Business Law and Taxation

Andrew M. C. Smith

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: March 6, 2009

Abstract

This paper analyses the methods adopted by Australia and New Zealand to tax companies and their shareholders in four key periods from 1945 to 2005. For each period the major concern of the paper is with an analysis of the factors contributing to effective tax rates for different types of Trans-Tasman investment and of the tax effects of those investments in terms of international tax policy criteria in common use in 2005.

Despite considerable changes since 1945, both systems still contain biases against Trans-Tasman investment and in some circumstances produce very high effective tax rates on Trans-Tasman investment. This is despite much closer alignment of the two countries' shareholder taxation regimes since the mid 1980s and the provisions, enacted in 2003, which allowed companies from either country to elect to enter the other country's imputation system. The remaining biases in the two systems against offshore investment are in part products of the corporate-shareholder tax history of the two countries and of the worldwide economic environment in which they radically reformed their tax systems in the 1980s. The paper concludes with a discussion of some possible solutions to these biases.

Keywords: Corporate Shareholder Taxation, International Taxation, Trans Tasman

JEL Classification: H25, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, C. John and Smith, Andrew M. C., Trans-Tasman Taxation of Companies and Their Shareholders 1945-2005 (March 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1354944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1354944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
New Australia , Zealand
Trans-Tasman Triangular Tax: An Australian And New Zealand Government Discussion Document, Canberra and Wellington Posted: 2002
Australia
Australian Financial System, Final Report Of The Committee Of Inquiry Posted: 1981
Australia
Board of Taxation, International Taxation: A Report To The Treasurer, Canberra
Committee On Taxation Posted: 1961
Australia
Committee On Uniform Taxation Posted: 1942
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,758
RANK
493,078
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Long and Winding Road: A Century of Centralisation in Australian Tax

By Rodney Fisher and Jacqueline Mcmanus

100 Years of Income Tax

By John Prebble Kc

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies