Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is European Accounting Research Fairly Reflected in Academic Journals? An Investigation of Possible Non-Mainstream and Language Barrier Biases

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2009

Bernard Raffournier

University of Geneva

Alain Schatt

University of Lausanne, HEC-Lausanne

Date Written: March 7, 2009

Abstract

Recent research has revealed that most articles published in top US accounting journals come from institutions based in the US or a small number of other English-speaking countries (Jones and Roberts, 2005). It has also been shown that the research paradigm favoured by US journals is financial economics, with the result that articles on accounting history or social and behavioural accounting are very scarce. European journals exhibit a more diverse content. Nevertheless, as shown by some studies, British authors are the main contributors to these journals. As a consequence, the assertion has been made that the published literature is not perfectly representative of the diversity of European accounting research.

The aim of this study is to test the validity of this assertion by comparing the content of eighteen major academic journals in accounting over five years (2000-2004) with the set of papers presented at the EAA congress in 2003, 2004 and 2005. The results give some support to the assertion that the diversity of European accounting research is imperfectly reflected in academic journals. They also are consistent with the idea that non English-speaking scholars are at a competitive disadvantage in the race for publication in recognized periodicals.

Keywords: accounting research, accounting journals, publications, language

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Raffournier, Bernard and Schatt, Alain, Is European Accounting Research Fairly Reflected in Academic Journals? An Investigation of Possible Non-Mainstream and Language Barrier Biases (March 7, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1355084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1355084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
J Alexander , M Lecoutre , R Scherer
A global comparison of business journal ranking systems
Journal of Education for Business , p. 321 - 327 Posted: 2007-07
Crossref
C R Baker , M S Bettner
Interpretive and critical research in accounting: a commentary on its absence from mainstream accounting research
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 8 , p. 293 - 310 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Ballas , V Theoharakis
Exploring diversity in accounting through faculty journal perceptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Bonner , J Hesford , W Van Der Stede , S Young
The most influential journals in academic accounting, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , p. 663 - 685 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,242
RANK
315,702
7 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Social Skill Preferences of Tax Professionals in CPA Firms: A FIRO-B Analysis

By Philip H. Siegel, Michelle Bertolini, ...

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted to Professor: Evidence from the UK Accounting and Finance Academic Community

By Vivien A. Beattie and Alan Goodacre

A Glance at German Financial Accounting Research between 1950 and 2005: A Publication and Citation Analysis

By Rolf Uwe Fülbier and Manuel Weller

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies