Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ASRs Part V - Rumpelstiltskin Accounting: Spinning Gold from Straw (Silicon Image Addendum)

15 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2009 Last revised: 16 Mar 2009

M. A. Gumport

MG Holdings/SIP

Date Written: March 12, 2009

Abstract

The current study celebrates Silicon Image's 2008 $62 million accelerated stock repurchase (ASR) program. Companies commonly indicate ASRs contractually promise execution of stock buybacks at a favorable price. To the contrary, analysis of a small sample of 2006-2007 ASRs has found:

1) Inferior risk/reward relative to simple alternatives (inefficient execution), 2) Liability (ASRs are denied a 10b-18 safe harbor against charges of manipulation), 3) Disturbing, pre-deal, stock activity (prices rise 10% shortly preceding an ASR), 4) Idiosyncratic, incomplete, and sometimes misleading disclosures. 5) Disproportionate exposure to counter party risk.

Silicon Image's ASR shares the standard shortcomings, but the firm's auditors, executive protestations notwithstanding, go the extra mile in delivering an imaginative rendition of reporting conventions. In conformance to 15th century tradition, modern accounting deems that equity transactions, including stock repurchases, never give rise to income. Accordingly, Silicon Image might, in a run of the mill performance of ASR financial legerdemain, after paying a premium price for its repurchases, with the usual hocus-pocus presto-change-o, flash-of-light and puff-of-smoke, have commissions, fees and true economic consequence of fluctuating share prices vanish...materializing in their stead, from thin air, an unblemished income statement, pristine, the proverbial white rabbit. But, with an extra flourish and added abracadabra, Silicon Image's auditors transmogrify the $62 million ASR into a $1 million reported profit earned through the transaction's dealings with counter party banker Credit Suisse. Now, that is some trick. We need not believe Credit Suisse took a loss on its side of the bargain (do we rush to aid the lady the magician will saw in half?); the illusion is spectacle enough, and it would be dangerous to interfere.

In brief, Silicon Image makes full use of conventional stock buyback reporting blandishments, but its auditors go a troll's stomp further in insisting the firm profits and that, like Rumpelstiltskin, their client Silicon Image spins gold from straw.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G32

Suggested Citation:

Gumport, Michael A., ASRs Part V - Rumpelstiltskin Accounting: Spinning Gold from Straw (Silicon Image Addendum) (March 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1358567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1358567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,192
RANK
528,080
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies