Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector to Public Services: 20 Years of 'Contextual' Accounting Research

Presented to the 5th Asian Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting (APIRA) Conference, 8-10 July 2007, Auckland, New Zealand

41 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2009

Jane Broadbent

University of London, Royal Holloway

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: July 8, 2007

Abstract

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to review and critique the field of public sector accounting research. Many nation states deliver essential public services. In recent times, many of these nations have been involved in programmes of "modernisation", which, in part, means that these public services now are significantly managed, delivered and governed by private and third sector organisations.

Design/methodology/approach - The paper employs a literature-based analysis and critique of public sector accounting articles published in the selected journals from 1992 to 2006. From this, a descriptive meta-analysis of the characteristics of the research will be discussed. Finally, a conceptual analysis of the selected literature will be used to evaluate the field and address a possible future research agenda.

Findings - The descriptive analysis highlights that among the research papers reviewed several interesting patterns emerged concerning public service research. Also, the dominance of Australasia and UK research was noted. The extent of research in different levels of government/jurisdiction indicated that the majority of research was organisationally based. Finally, when the various functional types of accounting are considered, management accounting remained the most researched area of interest.

Research limitations/implications - The paper only considered research within eight selected journals and over the period 1992 to 2006. Therefore, for instance, US mainstream public sector accounting research has not been reviewed.

Originality/value - The main implications of the paper are that "contextual" public service accounting research has a strong tradition and, through the process of reflection and critique of the body of work, several important insights are provided in order to highlight areas for further research and policy development.

Keywords: Public sector accounting, Public sector organizations

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Broadbent, Jane and Guthrie, James, Public Sector to Public Services: 20 Years of 'Contextual' Accounting Research (July 8, 2007). Presented to the 5th Asian Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting (APIRA) Conference, 8-10 July 2007, Auckland, New Zealand, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1360522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,169
RANK
116,469
11 Citations
205 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Institutional Pressures for Adopting New Cost Accounting Systems in Finnish Hospitals: Two Longitudinal Case Studies

By Janne Järvinen

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies