Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uniform Accounting Periods: An Historical Review and Critique

Accounting History, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 79 - 100, 2003

Posted: 18 Mar 2009

Robert G. Luther

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The practice of 'closing' company ledgers each year and producing annual balance sheets and income statements is firmly established around the world. However, although annual balancing and closing of accounts has been common in Europe for at least 500 years, it was not universally adopted until the beginning of the 20th century.

This paper argues that in certain circumstances it is appropriate to sacrifice uniformity in favour of flexibility. The argument is illustrated by reference to insurance and mining companies which, especially prior to 1914, had the characteristics of single ship ventures. For them the concepts of accounting periodicity and matching were less relevant than in other industries and annual accounts were of questionable value.

By detailed examination of company reports and by bringing together the arguments of prominent accounting thinkers this paper aims to show that, on the question of periodicity, a "one size fits all" approach is potentially damagingly restrictive.

Keywords: Accounting periodicity, Cumulative accounts, Single-ship companies

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Luther, Robert G., Uniform Accounting Periods: An Historical Review and Critique (2003). Accounting History, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 79 - 100, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1360234
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies