Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theoretical and Historical Context of Adoption of Sector Neutral IFRS in Australia - Issues and Consequences for the Public Sector

Presented to the Effects of Globalisation on Financial Reporting Conference, Istanbul Commerce University, 25-29 May 2005, Istanbul, Turkey

Posted: 17 Mar 2009

Ron Day

The University of Sydney

Christine Merle Ryan

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: May 25, 2005

Abstract

This paper focuses on issues and consequences for the public sector from the current policy decision to adopt sector-neutral International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from reporting periods on or after 1 January 2005. It contends that an examination of the history of private and public sector involvement in the accounting standard setting process to date, and the explanations and applications of regulatory theory, will do much to contextualise and inform the decision process. We develop a theme that private interests have dominated the consciousness of the professional accounting standard setters at all important stages of standard setting in Australia, culminating in the merger of the Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (PSASB) with the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB), to form a new AASB, under the Financial Reporting Council strategic direction. We then argue that this new AASB was itself captured by a corporatist mix of private interests, government strategy, and international developments, to enable the decision to adopt sector-neutral IFRS standards to take place. After exploring the process that led to these decisions, we examine the consequences of it, particularly in relation to the public sector.

Keywords: Public Sector, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, Public Sector Accounting Standards Board, PSASB, Australian Accounting Standards Board, AASB

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Day, Ron and Ryan, Christine Merle and Guthrie, James, Theoretical and Historical Context of Adoption of Sector Neutral IFRS in Australia - Issues and Consequences for the Public Sector (May 25, 2005). Presented to the Effects of Globalisation on Financial Reporting Conference, Istanbul Commerce University, 25-29 May 2005, Istanbul, Turkey, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1361361
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies