Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Research and the Development of Accounting Profession in Nigeria

1st International Conference on Research and Development, Institute of African Studies, University of Ghana

Posted: 9 May 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: November 15, 2008

Abstract

Accounting research is a critical element in the development of Accounting education curriculum, teaching pedagogy, modernization and innovation of all parts of accounting practice. The educational system at the university and professional level is examined. An empirical survey of existing research publications in journals, conference proceedings, postgraduate theses and dissertations was conducted in Nigerian universities since 1980s. Data were collected through a structured questionnaire on research output areas, postgraduate training/research opportunities, academic staff time utilization structure, and academia-practitioner linkage. The role of Nigerian universities significantly provoked development of accounting profession. The educational system has evolved, but the relationship between the profession and the universities continues to be problematic for the accounting profession to achieve its goals in Nigerian economic development. There is a weak nexus between instruction, practice and research, lack of balance of theory and practice in curriculum, University rules and regulations are rigid and no dedicated effort for doctoral research. Accounting professional bodies are at rivalry and have little linkage with existing research findings and innovations in accounting. What is required is a dynamic development of curriculum, a good synergy of research and practice in Accounting.

Keywords: Accounting Education, Accounting research, Accounting Profession

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., Accounting Research and the Development of Accounting Profession in Nigeria (November 15, 2008). 1st International Conference on Research and Development, Institute of African Studies, University of Ghana, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1384600
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,690
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies