Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Nietzchean Genealogical 'Effective' History Approach

Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 01-09

28 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2009 Last revised: 6 May 2009

Norman B. Macintosh

Queen's University

Date Written: September 18, 2008

Abstract

This essay argues that much accounting history research has failed to present critiques of the present state of accounting’s authoritative concepts and principles, theory, or present day practices. It proposes that accounting history research could benefit by adopting a Nietzchean genealogical “effective” history approach. It outlines the four fundamental strengths of traditional history [investigate only the real with facts; the past is a permanent dimension of the present; history has much to say about the present; and the past, present, and future constitute a seamless continuum]. It identifies Nietzsche’s major concerns with traditional history and contrasts it with his genealogical approach. Two examples of genealogical historiography are presented - Williams’s [1944] exposition of the major shift in British discourse regarding slavery, and Macintosh et al.’s [2000] genealogy of the accounting sign of income from feudal times to the present. The paper critiques some of the early Foucauldian based accounting research as well as some more recent studies from this perspective. It concludes that adopting a genealogical historical approach would enable accounting history research to become effective history.

Keywords: genealogy, Nietzsche, traditional history, effective history, Foucauldian studies

Suggested Citation:

Macintosh, Norman B., Towards a Nietzchean Genealogical 'Effective' History Approach (September 18, 2008). Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 01-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1392811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , issue 6 , p. 103 - 126
Crossref
E &amp; P Bartov , Mohanran
Private Information, Earnings Manipulation, and Executive Stock Options
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Baudrillard
Selected Writings Posted: 1988
R Boland
Accounting and the Construction of the Governable Person
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 265 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
320,086
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies