Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bourdieu's Logic of Practice Theory: Possibilities for Research on Management Accounting and Control

Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 02-09

41 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2009 Last revised: 6 May 2009

Clinton Free

University of Sydney Business School

Norman B. Macintosh

Queen's University

Date Written: September 18, 2008

Abstract

This paper investigates the potential for expanding the domain of sociological-based studies in management accounting and control systems by drawing on Bourdieu's theory of the practical logic of everyday action especially its central habitus concept that he saw as the basic indispensable concept for understanding social action. However, as Emirbayer and Johnson [2005] observe in criticizing the use of his theory in organizational theory, "The almost complete inattention to habitus, the third of Bourdieu's major concepts, without which the concepts of field and capital make no sense, further attests to the misappropriation of his ideas and the lack of appreciation of their potential usefulness ... [thus] the full significance of his relational mode of thought has yet to be apprehended" [p. 1]. This criticism seems equally applicable to the extant body of accounting studies drawing on some of Bourdieu's ideas but which have pretty much ignored both the habitus concept and the importance of his relational perspective whereby the various concepts in his theory are somewhat vacuous on their own. Given these lacunae, this paper presents a detailed exegesis Bourdieu's logic of social practice theory and mobilizes it to illuminate the collapse of Enron's management control and governance system and practices. The analysis indicates that Enron experienced a radical shift in its habitus from the Lay/Kinder era [1986-1996] to that of the Lay/Skilling era [1996-2001] and that the former was coherent with Enron's business model and its management control systems, while the latter vitiated the company's control mechanisms rendering them ineffective and playing a major role in Enron's demise. The paper concludes that Bourdieu's theory complements and supplements previous research mobilizing structuration theory and actor-network theory.

Keywords: Bourdieu, Giddens, habitus, field, capital, illusio, doxa, symbolic violence, bodily hexis, relational perspective, Enron, management governance and control systems, actor-network theory, structuration theory

Suggested Citation:

Free, Clinton Wallace and Macintosh, Norman B., Bourdieu's Logic of Practice Theory: Possibilities for Research on Management Accounting and Control (September 18, 2008). Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 02-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1392809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Baxter , W.-F Chua
Becoming the chief financial officer of an organization: Experimenting with Bourdieu"s practice theory
Management Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 212 - 239 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Bourdieu
Outline of a Theory of Practice Posted: 1977
P Bourdieu
The Logic of Practice Posted: 1990
P Bourdieu
Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
806
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,553
RANK
70,313
8 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies