Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Convergence of Financial Accounting and Management Accounting

58 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2009

Jani Taipaleenmaki

University of Turku - Department of Accounting and Finance

Seppo Ikaheimo

Aalto University; Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 24, 2009

Abstract

Both financial accounting (FA) and management accounting (MA) have recently developed towards increased forward-looking perspective. FA has transformed from historical cost accounting for stewardship purposes to fair value accounting for valuation purposes and decision making, and MA from short-term planning and control to strategic planning and control.

Based on the analytical model by Hemmer & Labro (2008), these trends are not separate from each other. They argue that the forward-looking perspective of FA leads to forward-looking MA and is the origin of need for the convergence of FA and MA. Drawing on Hemmer & Labro we build a theoretical framework for analyzing this convergence. On the basis of our analysis, we argue that recent development of information technology towards increasing integration is the main enabler of this convergence process. We argue further that the convergence is a much broader phenomenon than claimed by Hemmer and Labro.

We present observations both in the technical and technological (including accounting standards, discretionary reporting, performance measurement, transfer pricing, due diligence in M&As, and competitor analysis) and the behavioral and organizational manifestation domains (including accounting processes, work and role of accountants, accounting in multinational companies, incentive systems, control of business networks and board of directors and venture capitalists) on this convergence. We found that the increasingly strong forward-looking FA elements rest heavily on MA and vice versa. Based on these convergence observations we suggest several avenues for further research, which increase the relevance of accounting research with multiple theoretical approaches.

Keywords: accounting, convergence

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M45, M46

Suggested Citation:

Taipaleenmaki, Jani and Ikaheimo, Seppo and Ikaheimo, Seppo, On the Convergence of Financial Accounting and Management Accounting (April 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1394373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1394373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bromwich
The Case for Strategic Management Accounting: The Role of Accounting Information for Strategy in Competing Markets. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 15 , p. 27 - 46 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J Burns , J Vaivio
Management accounting changes
Management Accounting Research , volume 12 , p. 389 - 402 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R J Chambers , P W Wolnizer
A true and fair view of position and results: the historical background
Accounting, Business and Financial History , volume 1 , p. 197 - 213 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Bernhard Hirsch , Yvonne Schneider
Erklärungs- und Gestaltungsbeiträge verhaltenswissenschaftlicher Theorien für eine integrierte Rechnungslegung
Zeitschrift für Planung & Unternehmenssteuerung , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 7 Posted: 2010
Crossref
David Procházka
The IFRS Adoption and Its Impact on Financial and Management Accounting
Český finanční a účetní časopis , volume 2014 , issue 1 , p. 50 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Sara Trucco
Managerial Information and Integrated Accounting Systems. The Perception of Italian Managers
MANAGEMENT CONTROL , issue 1 , p. 91 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Tobias Filusch , Sascha H. Mölls
„(Lifetime) Expected Credit Losses“ im Rahmen der IFRS-Rechnungslegung
Zeitschrift für das gesamte Genossenschaftswesen , volume 67 , issue 4 , p. 245 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,895
RANK
27,571
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies