Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

65 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2009

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Not surprisingly, the recent accounting scandals look different when viewed from the perspectives of the political/regulatory process and of the market for corporate governance and financial reporting. We do not have the opportunity to observe a world in which either market or political/regulatory processes operate independently, and the events are recent and not well-researched, so untangling their separate effects is somewhat conjectural. This paper offers conjectures on issues such as: What caused the scandalous behavior? Why was there such a rash of accounting scandals at one time? Who killed Arthur Andersen – the SEC, or the market? Did fraudulent accounting kill Enron, or just keep it alive for too long? What is the social cost of financial reporting fraud? Does the US in fact operate a “principles-based” or a “rules-based” accounting system? Was there market failure? Or was there regulatory failure? Or both? Was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act a political and regulatory over-reaction? Does the U.S. follow an ineffective regulatory model?

JEL Classification: M41, G34, G38, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1394635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1475-679X.2009.00325.x
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
Beresford
) provides an insider's view of the business combinations issue Posted: 2001
Anup Agrawal , Tommy Cooper
Corporate Governance Consequences of Accounting Scandals: Evidence from Top Management, CFO and Auditor Turnover
Quarterly Journal of Finance, 2016, Forthcoming Pages: 48 Posted: 5 Mar 2008 Last revised: 16 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Armen A Alchian , Harold Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 95 Posted: 1972
Crossref
C R Alexander , M A Cohen
New Evidence on the Origins of Corporate Crime
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 17 , p. 421 - 435 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,237
RANK
22,618
15 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

The Credibility of Self-Regulation: Evidence from the Accounting Profession's Peer Review Program

By Clive S. Lennox and Gilles Hilary

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies