Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sarbanes-Oxley: The Law, its Role and its Critics

11 Pages Posted: 1 May 2009

Pushkin Gupta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 16, 2009

Abstract

Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco International are just a few examples of public companies involved in the biggest accounting scandals in the history of the United States. American investors expected CEOs and CFOs of these companies to be honest, and the auditors were expected to do their job sincerely and truthfully. The American investors also relied on the federal government to have rules and regulations to monitor their investments, and for multiple decades, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) kept American businesses honest. However, “unfortunately, the existing statutory scheme did not safeguard American investors from Enron, WorldCom and others.”

As a consequence, the US Congress passed the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) (also known as Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act) in 2002. Though Sarbanes Oxley has its benefits, it has also come under a lot of criticism. This paper attempts to review the benefits of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, its criticisms and the role it plays in ensuring higher ethical standards for publicly traded American businesses.

Keywords: SOX, Sarbanes Oxley,Critics,Section 404, Section 302,Title II,Title IV,Title III,Title VIII

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Pushkin, Sarbanes-Oxley: The Law, its Role and its Critics (March 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1396270 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1396270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Ethan G Zelizer
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Accounting for Corporate Corruption?
Loy. Consumer L. Rev , volume 15 Posted: 2002
Id
Sarbanes-Oxley Wikipedia , Act
Posted: 2009-02-25
Crossref
Kathleen A Lacey , Barbara Crutchfield George , Clyde Stoltenberg
Assessing the Deterrent Effect of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act's Certification Provisions: A Comparative Analysis Using the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 38 Vand
J. Transnat'l L , volume 400 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,145
RANK
94,656
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies