Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Use of R-Squared in Accounting Research: Measuring Changes in Value Relevance Over the Last Four Decades

Sauder School of Business Working Paper

45 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 1998

Stephen Brown

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Kin Lo

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 24, 1998

Abstract

This study examines the properties of the R-squared metric frequently used in accounting research as a measure of value relevance. Analytical results show that the metric is unreliable in the presence of scale effects. Specifically, we show that the metric is upwardly biased for accounting studies, and the bias is increasing in the scale factor's coefficient of variation. We conclude that it is invalid to make cross-sample comparisons of R-squared, whether the samples are drawn cross-sectionally or over time, unless the researcher controls for differences in the coefficient of variation across the samples. Applying this theory empirically, our results show that the finding of increasing value relevance in Collins, Maydew, and Weiss (1997) and Francis and Schipper (1998) are attributable to over time increases in the coefficient of variation of scale. After controlling for these effects, we find that there has been a decline in value relevance as measured by R-squared.

JEL Classification: C51, G10, G38, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen and Lo, Kin and Lys, Thomas Z., Use of R-Squared in Accounting Research: Measuring Changes in Value Relevance Over the Last Four Decades (November 24, 1998). Sauder School of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=141056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.141056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Mary E Barth , Sanjay Kallapur
The Effects of Cross-Sectional Scale Differences on Regression Results in Empirical Accounting Research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 12 , p. 527 - 567 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Mary E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The market valuation implications of net periodic pension cost components
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 27 - 62 Posted: 1992
Crossref
James Chang
The Decline in Value Relevance of Earnings and Book Values Posted: 1998
Andrew A Christie
On Cross-sectional Analysis in Accounting Research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 9 , p. 231 - 258 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
56 Citations
Alex Dontoh , Suresh Radhakrishnan , Joshua Ronen
Is stock price a good measure for assessing value-relevance of earnings? An empirical test
Review of Managerial Science , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Petros Kalantonis , Chrysovalantis Gaganis , Constantin Zopounidis
The role of financial statements in the prediction of innovative firms: empirical evidence from Greece
Operational Research , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 439 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Alessandro Mechelli , Riccardo Cimini
The value relevance of earnings and book value across the EU. A comparative Analysis
FINANCIAL REPORTING , issue 2 , p. 83 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Sascha H. Mölls , Michael Strauß
Bewertungsrelevanz der Rechnungslegung
Journal of Business Economics , volume 77 , issue 9 , p. 955 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,263
RANK
13,487
56 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies