Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US GAAP and IFRS: How Close is 'Close Enough'?

44 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2009 Last revised: 11 Jun 2009

Frederick W. Lindahl

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: May 26, 2009

Abstract

One important aspect of the world economy is the process of implementing uniform financial reporting standards. A leap forward took place when the European Union required that listed companies in all member nations use International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for years beginning 2005. Another aspect of the process is the joint effort between the International Accounting Standards Board and the US Financial Accounting Standards Board to eliminate differences in accounting principles between IFRS and US GAAP. In this study we investigate IFRS vis-à-vis US GAAP from 2004 to 2006, using all three primary financial statements. We find that large differences remain in income calculation and shareholders’ equity, but that the number of items has fallen to a handful. This study contributes to three topics. Academic accounting research often uses reported accounting numbers drawn from companies in different countries, so it is important to understand the comparability of the numbers. Financial analysis uses financial statement data in many profitability and risk measures, so analysts are concerned with how comparable the ratios are when the companies being compared are from different countries with different standards. 'Harmonization' has been progressing for several years. Information users will benefit by knowing the degree of convergence.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting quality, convergence, international accounting, 20-F reconciliation, comparison

JEL Classification: M44, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Lindahl, Frederick W. and Schadewitz, Hannu J., US GAAP and IFRS: How Close is 'Close Enough'? (May 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1413163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: the case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors, Accounting and Business Research, International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Ray Ball , Gil Sadka , Ashok Robin
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Pages: 54 Posted: 8 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,812
RANK
37,673
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies