Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Corporate Disclosure Necessarily Desirable? A Survey

31 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2009

Celine Gainet

UCLA Anderson School of Management & School of Law - Visiting Scholar; Sorbonne University

Dhafer Saidane

University of Lille III

Etienne Farvaque

University of Lille I - Department of Economics and Management; Lille Economie & Management (LEM) UMR 9221

Catherine Refait-Alexandre

CRESE - Université Franche Comté

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 9, 2009

Abstract

This article reviews the recent literature on the consequences of disclosure for listed firms. Though some studies show that disclosure is desirable for shareholders because it reduces the cost of capital, and increases the value created, others provide more mixed results. The conclusion on the collective advantages is even less convincing; it is not at all certain that disclosure can improve the stability of financial markets. To explain these results, it is necessary to invoke the costs and pernicious effects of disclosure. Disclosing information is expensive: because of the communication and audit costs, strategic information given to competitors and because disclosure can increase managers’ suboptimal behavior. But corporate disclosure also generates informational costs, because it is not certain that it improves the information held by third parties. Indeed, a firm can disclose information that is false, manipulated, too complex or too extensive. In this case, disclosure can increase information asymmetry between agents. Finally, disclosure can reduce actors’ incentives to look for information about the firm; it can reduce the knowledge that the market has at its disposal. Disclosure can therefore lead to an illusion of knowledge, increasing the instability of the financial markets instead of reducing it.

Keywords: Disclosure, Information Asymmetry, Governance, Cost of Capital, Financial Stability

JEL Classification: G30, G01, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gainet, Celine and Gainet, Celine and Saidane, Dhafer and Farvaque, Etienne and Farvaque, Etienne and Refait-Alexandre, Catherine, Is Corporate Disclosure Necessarily Desirable? A Survey (June 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1416622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1416622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 551 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ahmed , R Schneible
The impact of regulation fair disclosure on investors' prior information qualityevidence from an analysis of changes in trading volume and stock price reactions to earnings announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Aggarwal , N Kyaw
International variations in transparency and capital structure: Evidence from European firms
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Sharad Asthana , Steven Balsam , Sungsoo Kim
The Effect of Enron, Andersen, and Sarbanes-Oxley on the Market for Audit Services
Posted: 9 Aug 2004 Last revised: 7 Dec 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,803
RANK
62,070
2 Citations
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Transparency and the Cost of Complexity

By Aswath Damodaran

The Dangers and Drawbacks of the Disclosure Antidote: Toward a More Substantive Approach to Securities Regulation

By Susanna Kim Ripken

Is Corporate Disclosure Necessarily Desirable? A Survey

By Catherine Refait-alexandre, Etienne Farvaque, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies