Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Reform in the Aftermath of Enron: Congress' Failure to Deliver the Promise of Secure Retirement 401(K) Plan Participants.

Kentucky Law Journal, Vol. 92, No. 1, 2003-2004

73 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2009

Janice Kay McClendon

Stetson University College of Law

Date Written: June, 19 2009

Abstract

With the fall of numerous Fortune 500 companies, including Enron and WorldCom, 2002 will long be remembered as the year where corporate executives placed their own personal wealth before shareholders’ and employees’ well-being.

In response to corporate greed and misdeed, 2002 will also be remembered as the year in which Congress enacted the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to address the accounting and corporate responsibility issues raised by the Enron debacle, the SEC adopted new regulations with additional corporate disclosure and audit committee requirements, and the NYSE’s and the NASDAQ’s corporate governance task forces adopted new listing standards and codes of corporate conduct.

What 2002 will not be remembered as is the year of meaningful pension reform. In the wake of billions of dollars in losses attributable to 401(k) plan company stock holdings, Congress failed to enact one single pension reform bill that protects 401(k) plan participants from excessive investment in company stock. Congress stressed corporate accountability and oversight in enacting the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, but rejected those same principles in the area of pension reform.

This article examines the historical role of company stock ownership in tax-qualified retirement plans and how Congress is distorting that role to justify its failure to enact meaningful pension reform that restricts 401(k) plan investment in company stock. Specifically, the article addresses H.R. 3762, the Republican-backed House Bill that has arisen like a phoenix out of the ashes of more than 20 pension reform bills introduced by the 107th Congress. The article examines how the House Bill fails to deliver ERISA’s promise of a secure retirement by rejecting overall limitations on 401(k) plan investment in company stock, by failing to mandate the appointment of an independent plan fiduciary where company stock is offered as an investment alternative, and by failing to mandate that employers provide participants with investment advice as a condition of fiduciary liability relief.

Keywords: pension reform, 401(k), retirement, tax-qualifed retirement plans, ERISA

JEL Classification: J26, K31

Suggested Citation:

McClendon, Janice Kay, Pension Reform in the Aftermath of Enron: Congress' Failure to Deliver the Promise of Secure Retirement 401(K) Plan Participants. (June, 19 2009). Kentucky Law Journal, Vol. 92, No. 1, 2003-2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,691
RANK
481,321
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stetson University College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies