Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Appraising Accounting and Business Concepts in Kautilya's Arthaśāstra

12th World Congress of Accounting Historians, Istanbul, Turkey, July 20-24, 2008

14 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2009 Last revised: 30 Jun 2009

Manjula Shyam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: August 31, 2008

Abstract

Kautilya’s Arthaśāstra, from the end of the fourth century BC, provides interesting insights into the problems of governance, accounting and control in the Mauryan society. This paper uses the extant English translations of Arthaśāstra to summarize the structure of the Mauryan economy, trade, accounting and control, auditing, regulation and governance processes based primarily on Chapters 6, 7, and 8 of Book 2 of Arthaśāstra.

Keywords: Kautilya, Arthaśāstra, Sanskrit, governance, accounting and control, auditing, classical economics and management, public administration

JEL Classification: B11, D73, H11, H26, L32, M12, M14, M40, M50

Suggested Citation:

Shyam, Manjula and Sunder, Shyam, Appraising Accounting and Business Concepts in Kautilya's Arthaśāstra (August 31, 2008). 12th World Congress of Accounting Historians, Istanbul, Turkey, July 20-24, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1425720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,959
RANK
342,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies