Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Limits of Accountability

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2009

Martin Messner

HEC Paris

Date Written: July 3, 2009

Abstract

Calls for greater accountability from managers and corporations are regularly voiced these days, both in the academic literature and in public discussions more generally. Specifically, it is often suggested that extant financial and management accounting practices embody a rather restricted form of accountability that falls short of our mutual responsibilities as more than economic subjects. Against this backdrop, this paper raises the question of whether more accountability is always and unambiguously desirable from an ethical point of view. It does so by inquiring into the limits that the accountable self faces when giving an account. Building upon the recent work of Judith Butler, the paper describes the accountable self as an opaque, exposed, and mediated self that is inherently limited in its ability to give an account of itself. Because of these limits, we cannot expect demands for accountability always to be fully met. The paper points to the ethical importance of recognizing this limited nature of accountability and outlines possible ramifications of this fact for practice.

Keywords: responsibility, ethics, accountable self, accounting, Judith Butler

JEL Classification: M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Messner, Martin, The Limits of Accountability (July 3, 2009). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1429348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
T W Adorno
Problems of Moral Philosophy Posted: 2001
T Ahrens
Styles of accountability. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 21 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 139 - 173 Posted: 1996
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational time-reckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Berger , T Luckman
The Social Construction of Reality. A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,253
RANK
40,654
3 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Agency Costs of Overvalued Equity

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Agency Costs of Overvalued Equity

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

The Agency Cost of Overvalued Equity and the Current State of Corporate Finance

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies