Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Went Wrong? The Downfall of Arthur Andersen and the Construction of Controllability Boundaries Surrounding Financial Auditing

52 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2009

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Laura F. Spira

Oxford Brookes University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 13, 2008

Abstract

This paper provides insights into the dynamics underlying the construction of controllability boundaries surrounding the financial audit function, through an analysis of the sensemaking narratives of former members of Arthur Andersen reflecting upon the collapse of their firm. Our focus is how members, in light of their firm’s downfall, assess the abilities of public accounting firms to control financial audit work and auditor behaviour (i.e., organizational controllability), and the abilities of outside, non-accounting bodies to regulate financial auditing (i.e., regulatory controllability). The investigation is predicated on interviews with twenty-five former partners and employees of Arthur Andersen, mostly in Canada and the United Kingdom. Our qualitative analysis indicates that a majority of interviewees adheres to the view that financial auditing can best be controlled via a network of bureaucratic and clan controls established within accounting firm organizations, without any direct involvement from the part of regulators. A number of interviewees, though, consider that a reinforcement of outside regulation is necessary to discipline financial auditors. In spite of these differences, the vast majority of interviewees consider that financial auditing is controllable (via organizational or regulatory control), which is of interest given their spatial and emotional proximity from the controversial collapse of their firm. Also, most participants do not see the professional association as a useful or relevant party in helping the professional accounting community manoeuvring in times of turmoil. Important governance issues, ensuing from our analysis, are discussed.

Keywords: Arthur Andersen, Controllability boundaries, Financial auditing, Organizational controls, Regulation, Sensemaking

JEL Classification: G18, M40

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves and Spira, Laura F., What Went Wrong? The Downfall of Arthur Andersen and the Construction of Controllability Boundaries Surrounding Financial Auditing (May 13, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1433358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions Posted: 1988
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Alvesson , H Willmott
Identity regulation as organizational control: Producing the appropriate individual
Journal of Management Studies , volume 39 , issue 5 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,984
RANK
31,407
8 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webtrust Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webstrust E-Commerce Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

The Construction of Auditability: MBA Rankings and Assurance in Practice

By Clinton Free, Steven Salterio, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies