Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Decline in Accounting Professionalism - Causes and Effects

9 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2009

Bernard Enya Edu

Cross River University of Technology

Atim E. Esang

Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH)

Date Written: July 16, 2008

Abstract

The accounting profession has received very bad publicity in the media over the past decade, and with some justification. The forces at work were numerous and complex and different investigators place emphasis on a variety of phenomena that created the environment in which some accounting firms disappeared and the reputation of the entire profession was tarnished. Current practices still pose further decline in professionalism with threats to further erode public trust in the profession. This paper attempts to identify the core of the problem. It also makes some suggestions on how the profession can prevent a recurrence of the embarrassments to the profession, and how educators may better prepare entrants to the profession.

Keywords: Accounting, Professionalism, Accounting Standards, Professional Skepticism

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Edu, Bernard Enya and Esang, Atim E., The Decline in Accounting Professionalism - Causes and Effects (July 16, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1434839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1434839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Philip G Cottell , Terry M Perlin
Accounting Ethics: A Practical Guide for Professionals Posted: 1990
Crossref
Robert K Elliott
Assurance Services and the Audit Heritage: What's New and What's Rooted in the Past
The CPA Journal , volume 68 , issue 6 Posted: 1998
Kathryn Hollingsworth , Fidelma White
Audit, Accountability, and Government Posted: 1999
Susan Mcgrath
A Framework for Auditor Independence
Journal of Accountancy , volume 191 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,741
RANK
74,813
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies