Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Financial Reporting

13 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2009

Bernard Enya Edu

Cross River University of Technology

Atim E. Esang

Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH)

Agba D. O. Otonkue

Cross River University of Technology

Date Written: July 17, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines amongst other issues how accounting system and the management of environment information can be oriented towards the goals of improving corporate sustainability and eco-efficiency while promoting accountability of management activities. The problem of environmental financial reporting and the contemporary issues on environmental accounting is also examined. The paper concludes that, the general picture, which emerges from currents environment financial reporting, is that since disclosures of environmental information are voluntary; there is a diversity of reporting practice. While large companies tend to report more environmental information, medium-scale and small-scale businesses usually report little or no information on the environment; and these disclosures tend to be more qualitative rather than quantitative. Recommendations on ways in which accountants can contribute to environmental management are proffered.

Keywords: Environmental Reporting, Ecological Accounting, Financial Reporting, Environmental Protection

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Edu, Bernard Enya and Esang, Atim E. and Otonkue, Agba D. O., Environmental Financial Reporting (July 17, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1435237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1435237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
The corporate Report, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Posted: 1975
Crossref
R Adams
Ready for a greening, Accountancy Age, 5 may p Posted: 1994
Business
Accounting and the Environment: a policy and research agenda (1992) Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
D Butler , Frost , R Macve
Reporting 1991-92: A survey of UK Reporting Practice , p. 53 - 76 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,608
RANK
37,673
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies