Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not by Will: Baxter and the Rise of Authoritative Accounting Standards

5 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2009

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: July 15, 2006

Abstract

Scholars retain their perspective in the face of opposition, ignorance, fashion-of-the-day, even prejudice. Access to the ears of princes rarely helps either the scholarship or the authority. William T. Baxter was among the first, if not the first, to recognize and articulate the deleterious consequences of authoritative measurement standards for accounting as a profession, academic discipline, and subject of university instruction. Yet, his career coincided with the rise of such standards. Today, as we stand at the verge of global triumph of standards and authority over individual analysis and judgment in accounting measurement, doubts about the wisdom of this approach are beginning to take root. Baxter would be too gracious to have the last laugh.

Keywords: accounting standards, Baxter, uniformity, profession, practice, education, research

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Not by Will: Baxter and the Rise of Authoritative Accounting Standards (July 15, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1437548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1437548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
490,153
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Hicksian Income in the Conceptual Framework

By Michael Bromwich, Richard H. Macve, ...

Econometrics of Current or 'Fair' Values

By Shyam Sunder

Sequences of Change in Financial Reporting: the Case of Fair Value

By Julia Morley

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies