Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strengthening the Financial Reporting System: Can Audit Committees Deliver?

66 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2009

Jean Bédard

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Date Written: July 23, 2009

Abstract

This paper reviews literature on audit committees in order to evaluate the extent to which committees are effective in terms of strengthening financial reporting. Specifically, we examine academic research on the topic of audit committee effectiveness published in a variety of accounting journals from 1994 until 2008. In particular, our review investigates from a meta-perspective the results reported in studies which examine the relationship between certain audit committee characteristics and measures of audit committee effectiveness. A large proportion of the studies report a positive association between effectiveness and the following characteristics: presence of the audit committee; audit committee members’ independence; and members’ competencies. However, the number of meetings and the size of the committee are not frequently associated positively with audit committee effectiveness. Our review also highlights important gaps in literature. Most studies are relational and explanatory; very few studies are exploratory, descriptive or transformative. Psychological and sociological perspectives of analysis are neglected. Knowledge is scant on audit committees in jurisdictions which do not follow the Anglo-Saxon model of corporate governance. Further, research on dynamics surrounding audit committee processes is scarce. As a result of these gaps in literature, our review aims to sensitize accounting researchers about the appropriateness of extending the boundaries of research on audit committees: methodologically, theoretically, and geographically speaking. Further, by summarizing research results on the effectiveness of various audit committee attributes, our review can be useful for regulators in terms of assessing the impact of extant regulation or in terms of implementing new regulation. Regulators and practitioners, however, should be careful in interpreting the results; 59 percent of the studies we reviewed focus on US public companies and most of the other studies rely on data gathered in countries characterized by the Anglo-Saxon model of corporate governance.

Keywords: Audit committee, Corporate governance, Effectiveness, Regulation, Review of literature

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Bédard, Jean and Gendron, Yves, Strengthening the Financial Reporting System: Can Audit Committees Deliver? (July 23, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1438150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1438150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
A Abbott
Chaos of Disciplines Posted: 2001
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
17 Citations
Lourens Erasmus
Enhancing effective public sector governance: Effectiveness of audit committees in South African municipalities
, p. xxvii Posted: 2025
Crossref
Elizabeth A. Rainsbury , Sue Malthus , Patsie Anne Capper
The Existence and Composition of Audit Committees in the New Zealand Public Sector
Australian Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 103 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Audrey H Legodi , Philna Coetzee
Enhancing effective public sector governance: Effectiveness of audit committees in South African municipalities
, p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Keith Thomas , Aquinas J. Purcell
Local Government Audit Committees: A Behaviour Framework for Effective Audit Committee Performance
Australian Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 418 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,742
RANK
42,692
17 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies