Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mathematics in Accounting as a Big Unanswered Question

19 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2009 Last revised: 30 Jul 2009

Sony Warsono

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Muhammad Arsyadi Ridha

Accounting Corner

Arif Darmawan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 25, 2009

Abstract

Mathematics has been employed in accounting for centuries. It was included in the double entry system in the Luca Pacioli’s mathematics book but has not, so far, received appropriate attention in the development of modern accounting. The expanded accounting equation employed nowadays is considered a black-box, and there have been no significant improvements to the equation. This paper outlines the importance of the accounting equation in identifying the limitations of current accounting standards, particularly the definition of the elements of financial statements. Furthermore, this paper argues that the approach employed in the definitions of the elements of financial statements should be on the basis of information-base, instead of the use either the balance sheet or the income statement approach. Finally, the paper suggests that the application of mathematics in accounting be dealt with so that accounting will make a significant contribution to the academic world.

Keywords: Expanded accounting equation, The Joint Project IASB/FASB, Definitions of revenues and expenses, Mathematics in accounting

Suggested Citation:

Warsono, Sony and Ridha, Muhammad Arsyadi and Darmawan, Arif, Mathematics in Accounting as a Big Unanswered Question (July 25, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1439084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1439084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Aaa Fasc ; Benston , G J , D R Carmichael , J S Demski , B G Dharan , K Jamal , R Laux , S Rajgopal , G Vrana
The FASB'S conceptual framework for financial reporting: A critical analysis. Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , p. 229 - 238 Posted: 2007
K Alfredson , K Leo , R Picker , P Pacter , J Radford , V Wise
Applying International Financial Reporting Standards Posted: 2007
Crossref
R N Anthony , D F Hawkins , K A Merchant
Accounting: Text and Cases Posted: 2007
R Ball
What is the actual economic role of financial reporting? Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 427 - 432 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
917
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,900
RANK
59,035
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies