Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Reporting - Need for Standards and Legalization

11 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2009

Shivaji

Maharishi University of Management

Sairavi Subramaniam

Maharishi University of Management ; Centennial College

Date Written: July 29, 2008

Abstract

The stress on environmental issues has caused an increasing trend among companies to bring out their environmental contribution as green reports. The authors show that such reporting is still in infancy and has not developed yet in full and rigorous form as the annual company reports. Though green reporting is a voluntary disclosure, many companies are producing such reports but the reports are ambiguous in many cases because of lack of standards and legality, reducing their usefulness. The authors compare the US companies with those in other countries with regard to green reporting. The authors give pointers to further research in the area that could lead to establishment of green accounting standards similar to Financial Accounting Standards. Once the usefulness of the green reports is made clear to the law makers, laws would be enacted to cover green reporting similar to Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 covering the financial and accounting disclosures.

Keywords: environment, green reporting, standards, GRI

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Shivaji, Edi and SUBRAMANIAM, SAIRAVI, Green Reporting - Need for Standards and Legalization (July 29, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1440833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
To Start with a need for more comprehensive standards for Environmental reporting disclosures should be facilitated that could help every corporation to follow them strictly and adhere to their content and submit themselves to G3 guidelines
List of References
Crossref
N Buhr , M Freedman
Culture, institutional factors and differences in environmental disclosure between Canada and the United States
Critical Perspectives in Accounting , volume 12 , issue 3 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Galbraith
Environmental reporting for companies needs teeth
The Economist , volume 5 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,533
RANK
169,120
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies