Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reflections on Stewardship Reporting

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 215-227, 2007

Posted: 1 Aug 2009

Vincent O'Connell

University of Amsterdam Business School

Abstract

Following the July 2005 decision by the IASB/FASB not to designate ‘‘stewardship’’ as a separate financial reporting objective in their converged Conceptual Framework, the purpose of this commentary is to call for a renewed emphasis on stewardship-related research in financial reporting. To this end, I propose specific questions related to the following themes: (1) the interaction between stewardship and decision-usefulness; (2) the contemporary meaning of stewardship; (3) changes in the importance of stewardship over time; (4) stewardship and corporate governance; and (5) stewardship and social and environmental reporting. The primary goal of the proposed research agenda is to better inform the debate about the wisdom of consigning the separate stewardship reporting objective to the realms of accounting history in those many nations where the converged IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework is likely to guide the future development of financial reporting standards.

Keywords: stewardship reporting, financial reporting, accountability, control, decision usefulness, IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework

Suggested Citation:

O'Connell, Vincent, Reflections on Stewardship Reporting. Accounting Horizons, Vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 215-227, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440799
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,913
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies