Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting’s Nadir: Failures of Form or Substance?

University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Vol. 12, 2010

81 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2009 Last revised: 30 Sep 2010

Daniel Austin Green

Francisco Marroquin University

Date Written: August 2, 2009

Abstract

In light of a tumultuous decade of scandal and alleged involvement in global economic crisis, accounting may well be at its lowest point in terms of respect and authority. But what is the source of this condition: the organization of the profession or poor practice — form or substance? This paper argues that public attention paid to substantive accounting questions (e.g. fair value) has distracted from the more pressing concern of accounting’s regulatory failures. Substantive questions are of great importance, but they are also deeply intertwined with the organization and oversight of public accounting, as was recognized by early twentieth-century accounting theorists in appealing simultaneously to political progressivism and philosophical pragmatism to establish the monopoly of CPAs in the 'publicity' of financial condition.

This emphasis of substance over form has occurred simultaneously with a shift in rhetoric from 'accounting as art' to 'accounting as science,' resulting in less attention to accounting’s oversight and a dangerous mix of public and private interests in promulgating accounting standards. This scientific idealization also disregards the deeply political and decidedly non-scientific nature of many aspects of accounting and stands at odds with the emphasis on experience, judgment, and artistry used to justify CPAs’ role in financial regulation, as formalized in the 1930s in the wake of another financial crisis. Building on accounting’s pragmatist roots and contemporary legal literature on accounting, the article concludes that substantive reforms should better incorporate elements of judgment and subjectivity by requiring increased disclosure and transparency, but not prescribing specific accounting treatments.

Keywords: corporate governance, accounting, fair value, CPA, financial regulation, AICPA, FASB, PCAOB, NASBA

JEL Classification: G34, M44

Suggested Citation:

Green, Daniel Austin, Accounting’s Nadir: Failures of Form or Substance? (August 2, 2009). University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Vol. 12, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1442923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
See supra Part III.A.i (discussing the expensing of stock options)
Shalala V Guernsey
, volume 87 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Arewa
Crossref
Myddelton See
More than one accounting practice may be 'generally accepted' at any one time. If it were not so, how could accounting evolve?"). 322. MACEY, supra note 32
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,052
RANK
174,586
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies