Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bounded ‘Emotionalities’ and Accounting in the Narratives of Organisational Change: The Case of a Heritage Railway

60 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2009

Kelum N. Jayasinghe

University of Essex

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Dennis A. Thomas

Aberystwyth University

Date Written: August 10, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the central role accounting plays in changing and managing ‘volunteer emotions’ during a change process at a heritage railway. Informed by the ‘bounded emotionality’ framework, it shows how ‘accounting language’ interacts and conflicts with the defining characteristics of volunteer labour. We argue that in organizational contexts where actors express strong ‘emotionalities’ with their work and the prevailing organizational reality, the institutionalisation of new accounting and accountability systems involves a challenge to, and a regulation of, employee emotions.

Keywords: accounting change, organizational change, accounting language, bounded emotionality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayasinghe, Kelum N. and Soobaroyen, Teerooven and Thomas, Dennis A., Bounded ‘Emotionalities’ and Accounting in the Narratives of Organisational Change: The Case of a Heritage Railway (August 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1446673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1446673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
K L Ashcraft
Empowering 'Professional' Relationships
Management Communication Quarterly , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 347 - 392 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B E Ashforth , R H Humphrey
Emotion in the Workplace: A Re-appraisal
Human Relations , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
H G Avery
Accounting as a Language
The Accounting Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 87 Posted: 1953
R J Boland , L R Pondy
Accounting in Organizations: A Union of Natural and Rational Perspectives. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 8 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 223 - 234 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
422,861
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Institutional Theory and Accounting Rule Choice: An Analysis of the Four U.S. State Governments' Decisions to Adopt Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

By Vivian L. Carpenter and Ehsan H. Feroz

Management Accounting as Practice

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Corporatisation and Accounting Change: The Role of Accounting and Accountants in a Malaysian Public Utility

By Abu Kasim Nor-aziah and Robert William Scapens

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies