Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Study of Enron with Special Reference to Corporate Governance

Posted: 16 Aug 2009

Tabrez Ahmad

Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU)

Jai Mangalam

KIIT Law School, KIIT University

Ankit Kumar Srivastava

KIIT Law School, KIIT University

Sarvajit Sinha

KIIT Law School, KIIT University

Date Written: August 15, 2009

Abstract

There were ups and downs in the company in October 2001 when Enron reports its first quarterly loss in four years, $618 million US, and a reduction in shareholder equity of over $1 billion. The Securities and Exchange Commission began an investigation related to investment partnerships led by Fastow. Their investigation later showed that the complex web of partnerships was designed to hide Enron's debt. In November 2001, Enron announces it had overstated its earnings back to 1997 by about $600 million. Its shares plunge to 'junk' status from eighty-five dollars to thirty cents by the end of the month. The devastating results occurred when it was revealed that many of its profits and revenue were the result of deals with special purpose entities. Enron’s failure highlighted uncertainties about credit risk transfer vehicles and underscored two broader issues: Inadequate oversight of financial activities of nonfinancial corporations. Enron was the main dealer, market-maker, and liquidity provider in major segments of the over-the-counter energy derivatives markets and was also active in other derivatives markets, yet these activities were essentially unregulated. It was not required to disclose information either about its risk exposures or about market prices or conditions, nor was it required to set aside prudential capital. Because its trading unit’s capital was not segregated from the parent company’s capital, banks lost confidence in the parent company and withdrew their credit lines, which, in turn, contributed to the collapse of the trading operation. This was due to Ineffective private market discipline, disclosure, corporate governance, and auditing. Enron’s financial difficulties and vulnerabilities, including those associated with its extensive offbalance-sheet transactions, seemed to have gone undetected by analysts, shareholders, and creditors until it was on the brink of bankruptcy. In part, this may have been due to inadequate accounting rules and standards as well as to errors by its auditors, who failed to uncover related-party transactions and did not require Enron to properly consolidate its numerous, complex off-balance-sheet special purpose vehicles in its financial statements. Enron’s collapse raises the issue of how to reinforce directors’ capability and will to challenge questionable dealings by corporate managers. The Enron scandal shows the absolute requirement for boards of directors, executives and everyone else in the business world to accept the moral responsibility for honesty. While maximizing return for shareholders is the foundation of our economic system and provides for generally efficient capitalism, the system can be easily corrupted by the immorality and greed of a few.

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Tabrez and Mangalam, Jai and Srivastava, Ankit Kumar and Sinha, Sarvajit, Critical Study of Enron with Special Reference to Corporate Governance (August 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1455269
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,394
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies