Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Process of Circulation in Quesnay's Tableau Économique

Posted: 4 Oct 2009

Hernando Matallana

Universidad de los Andes, Colombia - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 14, 2008

Abstract

At the end of the 17th century capitalism had become the new social and economic order in northern Western Europe. Ever since the trading channels through which money and commodities change hands between the different agents, the actual sequence of these all-comprising monetary exchange processes, and the intertwining of the processes of production and circulation have always been a central issue in heterodox economic thought. The paper discusses Quesnay’s contribution to the theoretical foundation of the social process of circulation of capital in a monetary production economy in the Tableau économique. Additionally, the accounting dynamics of the circulation process of the agricultural kingdom is described by means of system of credit-debit tables currently used by German authors.

Keywords: accounting dynamics, circulation process, effective demand, input-output

JEL Classification: B11, B14, B22, E40

Suggested Citation:

Matallana, Hernando, The Process of Circulation in Quesnay's Tableau Économique (July 14, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1481454
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies