Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trebilcock on Tax Avoidance

28 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2009 Last revised: 8 Oct 2009

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Date Written: October 2, 2009

Abstract

Michael Trebilcock is by all accounts one of his generation's most prolific and important scholars of law and economics. Through more than 200 articles, book chapters, books, edited volumes, and other academic publications, Trebilcock has made lasting contributions to many fields including (and this is a partial list): contracts, torts, consumer protection, antitrust, international trade, immigration, regulation, and law and development. In recognition of his teaching and research, he has received awards and distinctions from students, universities, governments, and scholarly societies. The symposium for which this essay was prepared is only the latest token of appreciation for Trebilcock's profound and prominent contributions to the intellectual depth and breadth of legal thought.

And yet, despite the accolades, the attention, and the richly-deserved scholarly fame, there is a comparatively unlit corner of Trebilcock's oeuvre; the part dealing with income tax law. Although it would be the inaccurate to say that it has been entirely overlooked, most readers of Trebilcock's more discussed work will not be acquainted with the fact that his scholarly career began, inauspiciously as it might seem, nearly five decades ago with a 224 page long LL.M. thesis at the University of Adelaide. Almost unbelievably, this substantial piece of work was dedicated to analyzing just a single provision of Australian income tax law: a general anti-avoidance rule aimed at combating tax avoidance. This essay seizes control of the spotlight that has been trained on Trebilcock's other work and redirects it to Trebilcock's early tax scholarship.

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin, Trebilcock on Tax Avoidance (October 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1482001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1482001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
SCC 55; and Lipson v. Canada, 2009 SCC 1. The appeal in favour of the government was Canada Trustco, supra note 27. 85 A number of the terms
The appeals in favour of the government are Mathew v. Canada , volume 643 Posted: 2005
See the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Canada Trustco, supra note 27 at para. 19, where the Court remarks with respect to statutory use of the term " tax benefit" that
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,408
RANK
118,061
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies