Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Local to Global: Auckland Accounting Partnerships

CITY OF ENTERPRISE: PERSPECTIVE ON AUCKLAND BUSINESS HISTORY, Ian Hunter, Diana Morrow, Auckland University Press, pp. 220-231

12 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2009

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

The expansion of manufacturing, and retail activities in Auckland, New Zealand, was accompanied by the development and growth of accounting partnerships in a manner distinctive from legal, medical or other professional service firms. Accounting partnerships mimicked characteristics of their clients more closely than did other professional service firms, growing from local offices to nationwide groupings, and then adopting international affiliations.

In particular, the past forty years in the history of accounting partnerships in Auckland have shown a loss of local identifiers, the adoption of international firm names, and partners having to fight to survive in partnerships with dwindling partner numbers and rationalisation of branches. During this period, partnerships have also shifted from organisations based on principles of collectivism and collegiality to firms that have all the characteristics of corporations, usually described as managed professional bureaucracies.

The more recent study by Brock, Powell and Hinings further divides partnerships into three co-existing archetypes: the traditional professional partnership, the global corporate professional network (typified by the Big 8), and the intermediate form, the ‘Star’ form, with stable size and specialisation in particular types of accounting services. In this chapter, the focus is on accounting firms in Auckland which moved from the traditional professional partnership to a global corporate professional network.

To illustrate this transformation, two particular case studies are provided. The first is the merger between the Auckland firms of Clark Menzies with McCulloch Butler and Spence; the second, when the Auckland partners in the firm of Lawrence Anderson Buddle joined Deloittes. These two cases illustrate the fierce competition between accounting partnerships to gain dominance and reputation in the Auckland business sphere while at the same time strengthening international affiliations with naming rights. However, an outcome from the adoption of international names was that firms in New Zealand were then subject to mergers dictated by their transatlantic offices. These mergers were a major cost to New Zealand partners, both in business clients and in the personal costs of partnership redundancies.

Keywords: Auckland, accounting firms, business history

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., From Local to Global: Auckland Accounting Partnerships (2006). CITY OF ENTERPRISE: PERSPECTIVE ON AUCKLAND BUSINESS HISTORY, Ian Hunter, Diana Morrow, Auckland University Press, pp. 220-231 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1503672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
291,291
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

From Local to Global: Auckland Accounting Partnerships

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Professional Closure by Proxy: The Impact of Changing Educational Requirements on Class Mobility for a Cohort of Big 8 Partners

By Rachel F. Baskerville

A Very Private Matter: Anti-Nepotism Rules in Accounting Partnerships

By Rachel F. Baskerville

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies