Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Considerations About Fair View: A Special Reference to the Project of Conceptual Framework LASB-FASB

31 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2009

Antonio Somoza

Barcelona University

Date Written: December 22, 2009

Abstract

The objective of this work is to consider fair view from a conceptual perspective. Our starting point is the origin of the concept and its development. In the beginning the concept did not have the relevance that it later received, especially from the appearance of the 4th European Directive. From this Directive, each European country adopted and adapted the concept to their needs. However, in 2005, when International Accounting Standards were adopted by the European Union and the FASB and IASB started working in a new conceptual framework, the topic arose again. We outline the need for the concept to continue being a predominant component in the future conceptual framework, the availability of the principles (also standards and concrete rules) to the true and fair view and we underline the economic rationality as a basis in the new developments in Accounting.

Keywords: fair view, accounting principles, International Regulations of Financial

JEL Classification: M40, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Somoza, Antonio, Some Considerations About Fair View: A Special Reference to the Project of Conceptual Framework LASB-FASB (December 22, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1527164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D Alexander
A European true and fair view?
European Accounting Review , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D Alexander
A benchmark for the adequacy of published financial statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 239 - 253 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A true and fair view of the principles/rules debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Evaluating concepts-based vs. Rules-based approaches to standard setting
Financial Accounting Standards Commitee , volume 17 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,871
RANK
393,016
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

By Christopher P. Agoglia, Timothy Doupnik, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies