Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Diffusion of Double Entry Bookkeeping in Mexico and Spain: A Related but Under-Investigated Development

36 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2010

Julian Hernandez-Borreguero

University of Seville

J. Carles Maixé-Altés

University of Coruña - Facultad de Ciencias Economicas y Empresariales; University of A Coruna

Miriam Núñez-Torrado

University of Seville

Bernardo Batiz-Lazo

Northumbria University

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

There is a consensus within Mexican accounting historiography regarding widespread use of double entry bookkeeping by the end of the 19th Century in the realm of both private and public enterprise. However, there is conflicting and even contradictory claims as to when exactly this technique arrived to the vice-royalty of New Spain (present day Mexico) as well as its diffusion during the colonial era. In this article we address this conflict while putting forward the idea that the history of ‘modern’ accounting practice in Latin America should be framed by developments in its former colonial power. We offer the analysis of primary and secondary source material to support the view that there was continuity in the use of double entry in Spain and therefore, the so called ‘period of silence and apparent oblivion’ seems limited to the production of indigenous accounting thought (as expressed in the production of bibliographic material such as manuals and textbooks). We conclude that the history of Latin America accounting should be wary of extrapolating everyday practice by interpreting bibliographic material and proceed by examining surviving company documents as well as informal educational practices amongst organisations based in the metropolis and its then colonies.

Keywords: double entry, diffusion of accounting systems, knowledge transfer, Mexico (New Spain), Spain

JEL Classification: N8, M41, N46, N44

Suggested Citation:

Hernandez-Borreguero, Julian and Maixé-Altés, J. Carles and Núñez-Torrado, Miriam and Batiz-Lazo, Bernardo, Adoption and Diffusion of Double Entry Bookkeeping in Mexico and Spain: A Related but Under-Investigated Development (April 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1534163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Archivo , De Indias
México Audiencia De
, volume 320 Posted: 1249
Del Archivo Histórico , Banco De España
Secretaría: Dutari Hermanos, libros 18560 , volume 240 Posted: 18616
Arxiu Històric De Protocols De Barcelona
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
834,175
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies