Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reclaiming the Meaning of 'Direct Tax'

86 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2010 Last revised: 20 Feb 2010

Charlotte Crane

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Date Written: February 15, 2010

Abstract

The history of the litigation in the carriage tax case, Hylton v. United States (1796), including the extraordinary steps taken to present a case to the Supreme Court in which the tax would be ratified, suggests that the case was far more important than the simple amount of revenue at stake. This article explores the motivation behind the imposition of the carriage tax, and its defense in Hylton, as a part of the effort s of Hamilton and his fellow Federalists to create a robust federal government. That federal government would include revenue officers whose loyalties were primarily to the federal government not the state governments, and a federal power to tax that was neither limited to excise and other transaction-based taxes nor constrained by the apportionment clause.

Keywords: Direct Tax, power to Tax, Alexander Hamilton, Apportionment, Tax History

JEL Classification: B25, H77, K34, N11

Suggested Citation:

Crane, Charlotte, Reclaiming the Meaning of 'Direct Tax' (February 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1553230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1553230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
North Carolina delegates, and played a major role in the first North Carolina ratification convention and in the convening of the second
which the Constitution was finally ratified. Willis P. Wichard , volume 207 Posted: 1998
The opinions of Justice Chase and Justice Iredell went so far as to repeat the familiar boot-strap argument
Iredell had written in defense of the whiskey excise, see GJ. McCree, 2 Life and Correspondance of James Iredell , p. 55 - 56 Posted: 1858
E G William Casto ; Conn , . L Rev
Given the importance of the power to tax, the split decision in the Circuit Court, and the widespread opposition to the tax, a Supreme Court decision suggesting that the tax's constitutionality was unclear would have been a political catastrophe. Therefore, the justices may have gone straight to the merits of the case in order to validate the tax and provide judicial support to the government's efforts to raise revenues , volume 329 Posted: 1858
Nineteenth century treatise writers seem to have accepted this fiat without attempting to rationalize it
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,600
RANK
239,334
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies