Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Doctoral Program Rankings Based on Research Productivity of Program Graduates

Accounting Horizons 25 (1): 149-179.

46 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2010 Last revised: 5 Feb 2015

Nathaniel M. Stephens

BYU-Hawaii

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This paper presents rankings of accounting doctoral programs based on the research productivity of each institution’s graduates in the years immediately following their graduation. We use two time periods for analysis: the first three years after graduation and the first six years after graduation. We extend previous doctoral program ranking literature by expanding rankings of accounting doctoral programs with specific rankings for topical areas (accounting information systems (AIS), audit, financial, managerial, and tax) and methodologies (analytical, archival, and experimental). We show that rankings for topical and methodological areas differ significantly from rankings produced using methodologies that create a singular doctoral program ranking. These results emphasize the importance of considering topical and methodological areas when assessing doctoral program research strengths. These rankings should be of value to Ph.D. program applicants, administrators of academic programs, and industry – such as administrators of programs like the Accounting Doctoral Scholars program, KPMG Ph.D. Project, prospective Ph.D. students, and public accounting firms.

Keywords: Accounting Ph.D. Research Rankings, Accounting Research Methodology, Accounting Research Topical Areas

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Stephens, Nathaniel M. and Summers, Scott L. and Williams, Braden and Wood, David A., Accounting Doctoral Program Rankings Based on Research Productivity of Program Graduates (2011). Accounting Horizons 25 (1): 149-179., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1574502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1574502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
W T Andrews , P B Mckenzie
Leading accounting departments revisited
The Accounting Review , volume 53 , p. 135 - 138 Posted: 1978-01
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) Posted: 2003
Crossref
J D Bazley , L A Nikolai
A comparison of published accounting research and qualities of accounting faculty and doctoral programs
The Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 605 - 610 Posted: 1975
J J Benjamin , V C Breener
Perceptions in journal quality
The Accounting Review , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 360 - 362 Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,396
RANK
7,551
12 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Publishing in the Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing

By Edward P. Swanson

Concentration in Publishing at Top-Tier Business Journals: Evidence and Potential Explanations

By Edward P. Swanson, Christopher J. Wolfe, ...

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted at the Top 75 Accounting Research Programs

By Steven M. Glover, Douglas F. Prawitt, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies