Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Reading Hayek on Power to Tax

17 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2010

Fernando Estrada

Universidad Externado de Colombia - Faculty of Finance, Government and International Relations

Date Written: March 21, 2010

Abstract

This article describes the argumentative structure of Hayek on the relationship between power to tax and redistribution. It is observed throughout its work giving special attention to two works: The Constitution of Liberty (1959) and Law, Legislation and Liberty, vol3, The Political Order of Free People, University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1979.) Hayek describes one of the arguments most complete information bout SFP progressive tax systems (progressive tax). According to the author the history of the tax progressive system, works against such a tax model and deploys a variety of arguments in his favorite spot by critics: liberal democracy.

Keywords: Hayek, Power to Tax, Redistribution, Government, Progressive Tax, Democracy

JEL Classification: B1, B13, B25, E6, E62, H2, H21, H23

Suggested Citation:

Estrada, Fernando, A Reading Hayek on Power to Tax (March 21, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1575864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1575864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
/ Burnside , Eichenbaum , Fisherc
Fiscal shocks and their consequences‖ , volume 115 , p. 89 - 117 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Bruce Caldwell
Hayek's Challenge: an Intellectual Biography of F. A. Hayek Posted: 2003
T Damjanovic , D Ulph
Tax progressivity, income distribution and tax noncompliance‖ Posted: 2009
Crossref
De Vecchi , Nicholó
Hayek and the General Theory‖
Euro. J. History of Economic Thought , volume 13 , p. 233 - 258 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
225,151
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Argumentation Schemes in Economics

By Fernando Estrada

Antinomies of Capitalism: Review of Globalization and Its Discontents, Joseph Stiglitz

By Fernando Estrada

Electoral System and Political Parties - Preliminary Notes to the Colombia Case

By Fernando Estrada

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies