Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hicksian Income in the Conceptual Framework

41 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2010

Michael Bromwich

London School of Economics

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 22, 2010

Abstract

In seeking to replace accounting ‘conventions’ by ‘concepts’ in the pursuit of principles-based standards, the FASB/IASB joint project on the conceptual framework has grounded its approach on a well-known definition of ‘income’ by Hicks. We welcome the use of theories by accounting standard setters and practitioners, if theories are considered in their entirety. ‘Cherry-picking’ parts of a theory to serve the immediate aims of standard setters risks distortion. Misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the selected elements of a theory increase the distortion even more. We argue that the Boards have selectively picked from, misquoted, misunderstood, and misapplied Hicksian concepts of income. We explore some alternative approaches to income suggested by Hicks and by other writers, and their relevance to current debates over the Boards’ conceptual framework and standards. Our conclusions about how accounting concepts and conventions should be related differ from those of the Boards. Executive stock options (ESOs) provide an illustrative case study.

Keywords: Income, Hicks, Conceptual Framework, FASB, IASB, Assets, Interest Rates, Conventions, Executive Stock Options

JEL Classification: G30, M41, N30

Suggested Citation:

Bromwich, Michael and Macve, Richard H. and Sunder, Shyam, Hicksian Income in the Conceptual Framework (March 22, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1576611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1576611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
$12,000 before the unanticipated arrival of the new CEO and $13
Crossref
46 Under IFRS2 and SFAS123R (expensing the stock options but not recognising the intangible asset, i.e., the value of the anticipated future increase in annual earnings) income would fall by $1,091, together presumably with the impairment to the book value of existing net assets of $10,000 caused by the rise in interest rates
Under Hicksian Income No.2, the only economic change is the expectation of the increase in annual cash flows of $300 following the CEO's arrival, so income rises from $2,200 pa to $2,500 pa
While repeated interest rate changes in both directions are normal, one change is sufficient to illustrate the main point at issue here. A simple numerical illustration of No.1 vs. No. 2 in respect of a fixed interest security is given in Appendix XIII to Horton & Macve Posted: 1940
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,903
RANK
38,811
12 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Not by Will: Baxter and the Rise of Authoritative Accounting Standards

By Shyam Sunder

Econometrics of Current or 'Fair' Values

By Shyam Sunder

Sequences of Change in Financial Reporting: the Case of Fair Value

By Julia Morley

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies