Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
100 Years of Income Tax

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation Bulletin, Vol. 47, pp. 59-65, 1993

7 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1993

Abstract

The passage of the Land and Income Assessment Act 1891 saw the introduction of income tax in New Zealand. Since then there have been many changes to the regime but none have softened the reputation of income tax law as being the most complicated and internally inconsistent of all laws. There are many reasons for this reputation. The article attempts to explain the inconsistency through reference to history and principle.

Keywords: Income tax, Jurisprudence, Tax history, Tax principles

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, 100 Years of Income Tax (1993). International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation Bulletin, Vol. 47, pp. 59-65, 1993, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1581194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
416,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Long and Winding Road: A Century of Centralisation in Australian Tax

By Rodney Fisher and Jacqueline Mcmanus

Trans-Tasman Taxation of Companies and Their Shareholders 1945-2005

By C. John Taylor and Andrew M. C. Smith

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies