Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Sword to Shield: The Transformation of the Corporate Income Tax, 1861 to Present

Oxford University Press, 2010

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 10-04

24 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2010

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: April 19, 2010

Abstract

The U.S. corporate income tax – and in particular the double taxation of corporate income – has long been one of the most criticized and the most stubbornly persistent aspects of the federal revenue system. Unlike in most other industrialized countries, corporate income is taxed twice, first at the entity level and a second time at the shareholder level when distributed as a dividend. The conventional wisdom has been that double taxation was part of the system’s original design over a century ago and it has survived despite withering opposition from business interests. In both cases, history tells another tale. Double taxation as we know it today did not appear until several decades after the corporate income tax was first adopted. Moreover, it was embraced by corporate representatives at the outset and in subsequent years businesses have been far more ambivalent about its existence than is popularly assumed. This excerpt is the introduction from a book entitled From Sword to Shield: The Transformation of the Corporate Income Tax, 1861 to Present (Oxford University Press 2010). The book – the first historical account of the evolution of the corporate income tax in America – helps to explain its origins and the political, economic, and social forces that transformed it from a sword against evasion of the individual income tax to a shield against government and shareholder interference with the management of corporate funds.

Keywords: history of corporate taxation, taxation of corporate income, federal revenue system

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A., From Sword to Shield: The Transformation of the Corporate Income Tax, 1861 to Present (April 19, 2010). Oxford University Press, 2010, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 10-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1592662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Lynn A. Stout
On the Nature of Corporations
University of Illinois Law Review, Vol. 2005, pp. 253-267, 2005, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 04-13 Pages: 17 Posted: 22 Jul 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margaret M Blair
Locking in Capital: What Corporate Law Achieved for Business Organizers in the Nineteenth Century , 51 UCLA L
Rev , volume 387 Posted: 2003
See Daniel , N Shaviro
Decoding the U.S. Corporate Tax , volume 175 Posted: 2009
A Mihir , Dhammika Desai , Dharmapala
Corporate Tax Avoidance and Firm Value
Rev. Econ. & Stat , volume 537 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,015
RANK
125,115
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies