Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Development and the Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards in the Context of Small Island Economies - Using Briston’s Theoretical Foundation in the Context of Mauritius (1960-2008)

30 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2010

Pran Krishansing Boolaky

University of Southern Queensland - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Date Written: April 27, 2010

Abstract

Purpose - This paper examines the accounting development process and the relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Small Island Economies (SIEs) with particular reference to Mauritius. SIEs are different from large economies in terms of economic and political dependence, colonial influences, international pressures, as well as vulnerability to natural shocks.

Design/methodology/approach - This paper uses (i) Briston’s Accounting Evolutionary Theory (BAET) (1978) and (ii) the Transcendental Stage of Accounting Development (TASD) proposed by Boolaky (2004) to explain the different stages of accounting development in Mauritius. Five factors influencing IFRS relevance (colonisation, regulation, accounting education, capital market and global business) are considered. Global business is for the first time brought into accounting literature to discuss the relevance of IFRS in small island jurisdictions.

Findings - Mauritius has experienced little difficulty compared to other countries in the African region such as Madagascar, Mozambique, Angola, Swaziland etc. in its accounting development process because (i) it is used to the Anglo-Saxon accounting system, (ii) has adopted the phase-by-phase development process, (iii) has an adequate supply of professionally qualified accountants and (iv) made IFRS compliance mandatory in 2001 through the revised Companies Act 2001 and through the revision of other related legislations. As regards IFRS relevance, Mauritius has a conducive legal, political, business and economic environment to sustain IFRS.

Implications - This study has applied BAET to examine accounting development from basic book-keeping to IFRS adoption in Mauritius. It also explains that there is a transcendental stage of accounting development which BAET has not taken into consideration.

Originality - There is no previous study which has used BAET and TASD to examine accounting development and IFRS relevance in small island jurisdictions. This paper, therefore, provides a basis for future research in similar jurisdictions

Keywords: Mauritius, Accounting Development, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Boolaky, Pran Krishansing, Accounting Development and the Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards in the Context of Small Island Economies - Using Briston’s Theoretical Foundation in the Context of Mauritius (1960-2008) (April 27, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1596449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1596449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
O Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Introducing international accounting standards to an emerging capital market; relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Al-Akra , Ali , J Marashdeh , O
Development of accounting regulation in Jordan
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 186 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Alexander , S Archer
On the myth of Anglo-Saxon financial accounting
International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 557 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Aicpa
International Financial Reporting Standards Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,417
RANK
179,230
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies