Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Collapse of the Railway Mania, the Development of Capital Markets, and Robert Lucas Nash, a Forgotten Pioneer of Accounting and Financial Analysis

67 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2010 Last revised: 27 Feb 2012

Andrew Odlyzko

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - School of Mathematics and Digital Technology Center

Date Written: January 23, 2011

Abstract

It is well known that the great Railway Mania in Britain in the1840s had a great impact on accounting. This paper contributes a description and analysis of the events that led to this revolution, and of the key role played by Robert Lucas Nash in those events. He was a pioneer in accounting and financial analysis, providing studies on the financial performance of railways that were more penetrating and systematic than those available to the public from any one else. His contemporaries credited him with precipitating a market crash that led to one of two dramatic changes in accounting practices that occurred in the late 1840s. Yet his contributions have been totally forgotten.

The collapse of the Railway Mania provides interesting perspectives on the development of capital markets. The accounting revolution was just one of the byproducts of the collision of investors' rosy profit expectations with cold reality. Shareholders' struggles to understand, or, more precisely, to avoid understanding, the inevitability of ruin, have many similarities to the events of recent financial crashes. The Railway Mania events thus provide cautionary notes on what even penetrating accounting and financial analysis reports can accomplish. Railway share price behavior suggests that Nash's contributions had a much smaller effect than his contemporaries gave him credit for.

A shortened version of this manuscript (shortened primarily through the deletion of the abstracts) has appeared under the title "The collapse of the Railway Mania, the development of capital markets, and the forgotten role of Robert Lucas Nash" in Accounting History Review (formerly Accounting, Business & Financial History), vol. 21, no. 3, Nov. 2011, pp. 309-345.

Keywords: Development of Accounting, Railway Mania, Bubbles, Financial Analysis

JEL Classification: E44, G14, G24, L92, M41, N73, O16

Suggested Citation:

Odlyzko, Andrew, The Collapse of the Railway Mania, the Development of Capital Markets, and Robert Lucas Nash, a Forgotten Pioneer of Accounting and Financial Analysis (January 23, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1625738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1625738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,665
RANK
68,436
4 Citations
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Collective Hallucinations and Inefficient Markets: The British Railway Mania of the 1840s

By Andrew Odlyzko

This Time is Different: An Example of a Giant, Wildly Speculative, and Successful Investment Mania

By Andrew Odlyzko

Bubbles, Gullibility, and Other Challenges for Economics, Psychology, Sociology, and Information Sciences

By Andrew Odlyzko

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies