Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Globalization on Professional Accounting Firms: Evidence from New Zealand

Accounting History, Vol. 15, No. 3, 2010

24 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2010

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: July 3, 2010

Abstract

This study examines how the survivors survived the turbulence of affiliations and global mergers among accounting firms in the 1980s. The core data in this project are narratives from an oral history study of partners in large New Zealand accounting firms in the 1980s. The survival of accounting firms and the careers of their partners were substantially affected by their ability to form and maintain affiliations with global firms. The major benefit of Big 8 affiliation was improved auditing technology, and formerly important audit firms without an affiliation to a Big 8 firm disintegrated. Over the same period, accounting firms generally also became more managerial and bureaucratic. This was consistent with trends in other professional organizations.

Keywords: Accounting, globalization, mergers, New Zealand, professional firms

JEL Classification: M4, F23

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Hay, David, The Impact of Globalization on Professional Accounting Firms: Evidence from New Zealand (July 3, 2010). Accounting History, Vol. 15, No. 3, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1634467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Abbott
The System of Professions
An Essay on the Division of Expert Labour Posted: 1988
T Anderson , D Zéghal
The Pricing of Audit Services: Further Evidence from the Canadian Market
Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R F Baskerville , J Beechey
The Significance of Role Definition and Specificity on Performance-based Compensation: The Case of Accounting Partnerships
Oxford Business and Economics Conference, St Hugh's College Posted: 2007-06
R F Baskerville , D Hay
The Effect of the Big Eight Accounting Firm Mergers on the Market for Audit Services: Further Evidence
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,269
RANK
117,019
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Fees: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Supply and Demand Attributes

By David Hay, Warren Robert Knechel, ...

Litigation Risk and Audit Fees: Evidence from UK Firms Cross-Listed on U.S. Exchanges

By Ananth Seetharaman, Ferdinand A. Gul, ...

The Contribution of Internal Audit as a Determinant of External Audit Fees and Factors Influencing this Contribution

By William L. Felix, Audrey A. Gramling, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies