Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Historical View on the Political Fair Value Debate in Germany

56 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2010 Last revised: 20 Sep 2010

Sebastian Hoffmann

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: July 11, 2010

Abstract

In May 2009 the latest state-initiated accounting reform in Germany has been finished. Although German Commercial Code is made by parliament, especially academic experts play a vital role in accounting reform processes throughout Germany. As there may be various reasons for an engagement of academics in accounting standard setting an analysis of their participation was done with re-spect to the introduction of fair value accounting for financial instruments held for trading (which at the end of the process was one of the most intensely discussed topics). It turns out that most arguments used by academics in this debate were rather negative towards fair value accounting. The paper tries to explain these attitudes based on German accounting history. German accounting history and tradition seems to provide some interesting insights that may guide German ac-counting academics in their opinion on fair value accounting.

Keywords: accounting standard setting, fair value accounting, German accounting history, accounting reform

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Hoffmann, Sebastian, A Historical View on the Political Fair Value Debate in Germany (July 11, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1634824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1634824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,617
RANK
339,352
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Legislatures eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies