Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cultural Theory of (Accounting) History

Accounting & Business History Research Unit Annual Conference, Cardiff University, September 6-7, 2010

11 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2010

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: July 3, 2010

Abstract

In “Culture: the Anthropologist's Account” (1999) Adam Kuper advised avoidance of the use of the word ‘culture’ at all. It has come to denote too much and has now come to mean too little. However, just as “the history of all cultures is the history of cultural borrowing” (Edward Said, 1994), the same can be said of accounting history. It is not purported that the vestiges of accounting activities and practices we can study are independent of erratic but inevitable stimuli from other jurisdictions and colonial movements. Instead, many and multiple borrowings occur, in technology, professionalization, auditing and other core areas of accounting. At the same time accounting historians document shifts in beliefs and values in different eras of accounting activities. And with it may come a focus on such ‘webs of meanings’ (Geertz) to better understand the drivers to events. From this aspect, there is a method in historical studies: the Cultural turn of history’ which asks not: How it really was? But how was it for him or her or them?

This study examines the extent to which the ‘cultural turn of history’ or the Cultural Theory of History has been reflected in, and impacted on, accounting history scholarship, and then asks the question: have accounting historians adequately examined shared belief systems when we work on historical traces of accounting towards the ‘remaking of past worlds’? In order to answer this question, this study undertakes an analysis of accounting history scholarship, examining reflections of the Cultural theory of history in recent scholarship, by examining the papers offered at this conference in 2009. The study concludes with discussion, further research potential in this area, and limitations.

Keywords: Cultural turn of history, Cultural Theory of History, accounting history

JEL Classification: M40, B00, N8

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., The Cultural Theory of (Accounting) History (July 3, 2010). Accounting & Business History Research Unit Annual Conference, Cardiff University, September 6-7, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1634474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1634474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Richard K Fleischman
Confronting moral issues from accounting's dark side Accounting History , volume 9 , p. 7 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Richard K David Fleischman , Thomas N Oldroyd , Tyson
Monetising human life: slave valuations on US and British West Indian plantations Accounting History , volume 9 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Jane Frecknall-Hughes
Tax management or tax avoidance -some thoughts on historical development of terminology
Accounting & Business History Research Unit Annual Conference Posted: 2009-09
Funnell , N Warwick , Robert B Williams
Critical and historical studies in accounting Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,475
RANK
40,424
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies