Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Publication Records of Faculty Promoted to Professor: Evidence from the UK Accounting and Finance Academic Community

45 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2010

Vivien A. Beattie

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Alan Goodacre

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 11, 2010

Abstract

This study investigates the publication profiles of 140 accounting and finance faculty promoted to the senior rank of professor at UK and Irish universities during the period 1992 to 2007. On average, approximately 9 papers in Association of Business Schools (ABS) (2008)-listed journals, with 5 at the highest 3*/4* quality levels in a portfolio of 20 outputs are required for promotion to professor. Multivariate analysis provides evidence that publication requirements in terms of ABS ranked journal papers have increased over time, an effect attributed to the government research assessment exercise. There is no evidence that requirements differ for: internal versus external promotion, male versus female candidates; accounting versus finance professors, research intensity of institution peer group; or government research ranking of unit. There is also no evidence of a substitution effect in relation to increased recent publication history, quantity of non-ABS outputs or sole-authorship, all of which show a significant complementary effect. It is noted that there is very limited overlap in the UK and US publication journal sets, suggesting underlying geographically-based paradigm differences. The benchmarks provided in this study are informative in a range of decision settings: recruitment; those considering making an application for promotion to a chair and those involved in promotion panels; cross-disciplinary comparisons; and resource allocation. The evidence presented also contributes to the emerging policy debates concerning the aging demographic profile of accounting faculty, the management of academic labour and the Research Excellence Framework.

Keywords: faculty, journals, professor, promotion, publication

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Beattie, Vivien and Goodacre, Alan, Publication Records of Faculty Promoted to Professor: Evidence from the UK Accounting and Finance Academic Community (July 11, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1639882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1639882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,108
RANK
208,831
2 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Is European Accounting Research Fairly Reflected in Academic Journals? An Investigation of Possible Non-Mainstream and Language Barrier Biases

By Bernard Raffournier and Alain Schatt

The Social Skill Preferences of Tax Professionals in CPA Firms: A FIRO-B Analysis

By Philip H. Siegel, Michelle Bertolini, ...

A Glance at German Financial Accounting Research between 1950 and 2005: A Publication and Citation Analysis

By Rolf Uwe Fülbier and Manuel Weller

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies