Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping of Management Accounting Research

14 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2010 Last revised: 20 Apr 2015

Septian Bayu Kristanto

Krida Wacana Christian University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 13, 2010

Abstract

Management accounting research (MAR) over the last decade has made tremendous head way in the form of relevance of topics and strictness of methods. However, one of the challenges facing researchers today is continuation of this momentum and the selection of innovative and relevant topics. Thus, the main focus of this paper is the examination of the future of MAR. Specifically, the paper highlights the areas of management accounting where research is needed and a substantive contribution to the literature and practice can be made. The particular interests are those areas that are of high priority and significance to general managers, management accountants, and management accounting researchers. For researchers, the difficulty arises in choosing areas that are of high priority to managers etc. while also demonstrating rigidity in research competencies.

Keywords: Management Accounting Research, New Direction, and Frontier

JEL Classification: A22, A23, A29, M46

Suggested Citation:

Kristanto, Septian Bayu, Mapping of Management Accounting Research (July 13, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1639705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1639705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,474
RANK
110,759
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies