Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accountant’s Social Background and Stereotype in Popular Culture: The Novels of Alexander Clark Smith

32 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2010 Last revised: 27 Sep 2010

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ian A.M. Fraser

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 15, 2010

Abstract

Purpose The paper explores the origins of Scottish chartered accountants and the accounting stereotype as portrayed in popular fiction. It addresses calls for studies of the changing popular representation of the accountant (Hopwood, 1994; Carnegie and Napier, 2010). Design/methodology/approach The paper uses the detective novels of the Scottish chartered accountant Alexander Clark Smith as a lens by which to view competing theories about the origins of Scottish chartered accountants, and to explore the multi-dimensional character of the protagonist, as well as portrayals of other accountants.

Findings The novels contribute to our understanding both of the construction of accounting stereotypes and of the social origins of Scottish professional accountants. Smith novels suggest that while working class access to the profession was a reality, so was class division within it. In addition, Smith was ahead of the prevalent professional discourse of his time in creating an accountant protagonist who combines the positive aspects of the traditional stereotype with qualities of a private-eye action-hero, but this may have been incongruent with the image a still emergent accounting profession wished to portray.

Originality/value The portrayal of accountants in personal and societal settings at a time of profound social change, as well as the author’s background in the Scottish profession, provide a rich source for the study of social origins of Scottish chartered accountancy during the first half of the twentieth century. Further, Smith’s novels are of a popular genre; as such they merit attention because of their potential to influence the construction of the accounting stereotype(s) within the popular imagination.

Keywords: Fiction, Novels, Class, Recruitment, Stereotype, Profession

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Lisa and Fraser, Ian A.M., The Accountant’s Social Background and Stereotype in Popular Culture: The Novels of Alexander Clark Smith (July 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1657832 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1657832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
How do you do?" as social greetings. When an important visitor is due to arrive at the family home, the upwardly mobile (teacher) daughter of the household declaims
See Dimnik , Felton ; Or Wells
Posted: 2006
Crossref
In non-fiction printed media
Smith and Briggs do not review or comment on films between Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,214
RANK
422,861
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Enron: Corporate Fiascos and Their Implications (Acknowledgements & Introduction)

By Nancy B. Rapoport and Bala G. Dharan

Traditional Accountants and Business Professionals: Portraying the Accounting Profession after Enron

By Christopher J. Napier and Garry D. Carnegie

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies