Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interpreting Income Tax Laws in the Common Law World

STEUERRECHT VERFASSUNGSRECHT EUROPARECHT: Festschrift fur Hans Georg Ruppe, M. Achatz, T. Ehrke-Rabel, J. Heinrich, R. Leitner, O. Taucher, eds., pp. 354-378, 2007

31 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2010

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: January 1, 2007

Abstract

Civil law scholars often assume there are general differences in the approaches taken to the interpretation of income tax laws in civil law jurisdictions and common law jurisdictions. However, these differences may be dwarfed by the different approaches taken by two camps within the common law world, with the U.S. sitting in one camp and other Anglo jurisdictions in the other. Interpretation of income tax law in the non-U.S. Anglo world is characterized by judicial use of "transplanted doctrines" which involves the application in income tax jurisprudence of concepts, doctrines and meanings copied from other areas of law. Most notable of these is the judicial concept of income for tax law purposes, a concept borrowed from the classification of receipts for trust law purposes. The paper reviews the areas where transplanted doctrines have caused the interpretation of income tax laws to follow very different paths in the United States and in other common law jurisdictions.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard, Interpreting Income Tax Laws in the Common Law World (January 1, 2007). STEUERRECHT VERFASSUNGSRECHT EUROPARECHT: Festschrift fur Hans Georg Ruppe, M. Achatz, T. Ehrke-Rabel, J. Heinrich, R. Leitner, O. Taucher, eds., pp. 354-378, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1663468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
288,883
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies