Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency in an Opaque Market: Evaluative Frictions Between 'Thick' Valuation and 'Thin' Price Data in the Art Market

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 50, 2016

7 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2020 Last revised: 8 Apr 2016

Erica Coslor

University of Melbourne - Department of Management and Marketing

Date Written: April 4, 2016

Abstract

This paper highlights the paradoxical effects of increased price data in markets with difficult-to-value products where non-price factors are highly relevant. In the fine art market, the growth of market information providers facilitated access to auction price data, beneficial in a market noted for its clandestine dealings. Drawing from inductive ethnographic research, the paper notes complex outcomes from increased data availability, as auction prices can be seen as an indicator of an artwork’s value. The findings deconstruct factors of supply, demand and multiple prices in the art market, highlighting important non-price factors in valuation, which complicates provider claims of art market transparency. Unpacking the process through which expert “thick” valuation transforms raw price data into comparables and then valuations helps to explain continuing differences in valuation, with buyers prone to understand past prices as market or reference prices, rather than raw materials for valuation that are adjusted for complexity. This contributes to an understanding of both advantages and predictable problems from increased price data in markets that contain substantial qualitative and non-numerical data, as evaluative frictions can occur in the absence of clearly defined alternative valuation methods. This develops productive linkages between critical transparency and the valuation and evaluation research.

Keywords: Valuation, critical transparency, incomplete indicators, accountability, art investment, art prices

JEL Classification: A14, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Coslor, Erica, Transparency in an Opaque Market: Evaluative Frictions Between 'Thick' Valuation and 'Thin' Price Data in the Art Market (April 4, 2016). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 50, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1691120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1691120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
and the Future of Artnet (Interview with Artnet's CEO
Art Media Agency Posted: 2012
J Best
The limits of transparency: ambiguity and the history of international finance Posted: 2005
D Beunza , R Garud
Calculators, Lemmings or Frame-Makers? The Intermediary Role of Securities Analysts
The Sociological Review , volume 55 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 13 - 39 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bromwich
The Routledge Companion to Fair Value and Financial Reporting , p. 46 - 68 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,112
RANK
185,220
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Production, Market Structure & Pricing eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Art as an Investment and the Underperformance of Masterpieces

By Jianping Mei and Michael Moses

Art as an Investment and the Underperformance of Masterpieces

By Jiangping Mei and Michael Moses

How Did Japanese Investments Influence International Art Prices?

By Takato Hiraki, Akitoshi Ito, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies