Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Number of ISI Citations to JETA, JIS, IJAIS and ISAFM

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 24-10

16 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2010 Last revised: 25 Nov 2010

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: October 15, 2010

Abstract

This paper investigates the current number of ISI citations, and change in the number of those citations over the last two years, for four leading accounting information systems (AIS) journals. The results are surprising. A priori, I would have expected that the "Journal of Information Systems" would have had the most citations in total and over the last two years, since it is by far the oldest, and it is the flagship journal of the American Accounting Association's (AAA) Information Systems Section. However, two other AIS journals had substantially more total citations and incremental citations over the last two years. Further, even though it is younger, the newest AAA journal, the "Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting," has what seem to be fewer citations than it should have. Reasons for this apparent "citation disadvantage" for the two AAA AIS journals are investigated.

Keywords: Citations, Citation Disadvantage, Functional Citation Disadvantage, Journal of Emerging Technologies, Accounting Information Systems, Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., On the Number of ISI Citations to JETA, JIS, IJAIS and ISAFM (October 15, 2010). Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 24-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1693527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1693527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
K Decker
Quantitative modeling of complex environments
International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 215 - 235 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A M Diamond
What is a citation worth?
Journal of Human Resources , volume 21 , issue 2 Posted: 1986
C Dowling , S Leech
Audit support systems and decision aids: Current practice and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 92 - 116 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M M Eining
Discussion of the impact of elaboration-based expert system interfaces on de-skilling: An epistemological issue
Journal of Information Systems , p. 19 - 22 Posted: 1995
Load more
1 Citations
Brid Murphy , Orla Feeney , Pierangelo Rosati , Theodore G. Lynn
Exploring Accounting and Ai Using Topic Modelling
ACCINF-D-23-00118 · 46 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 235
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,405
RANK
379,264
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of E-Commerce Announcements on the Market Value of Firms

By Mani Subramani and Eric Walden

The Economic Worth of Celebrity Endorsers: An Event Study Analysis

By Jagdish Agrawal and Wagner A. Kamakura

Returns on Investments in Information Technology: A Research Synthesis

By Bruce Dehning and Vernon J. Richardson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies