Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Look at Three British Tax Cases

Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 1509, 1995

5 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2010

Joel S. Newman

Wake Forest University - School of Law

Date Written: June 12, 1995

Abstract

A Comparative Look at Three British Tax Cases. Three well-known British tax cases, Watson v. Hornby, Sharkey v. Wernher, and Mason v. Innes, all involved what we in the United States would have designated as nontaxable, imputed income. Yet, the British ruled that two of them, Watson v. Hornby and Sharkey v. Wernher, involved taxable events, while the third, Mason v. Innes, did not. Mason v. Innes was distinguished because the alleged income in that case was that of a professional writer. Such income is taxable under a different schedule in the British system from the others. Furthermore, the income of writers does not involve the inventory accounting that was required in the first two cases.

Why did the British struggle to reconcile these three cases, when we in the United States would have had little difficulty in dismissing all three? The answer lies in the British schedular system. In the United States, everything that could conceivably be called taxable income is taxable. By contrast, in the British schedular system, only those items of income which fit into one of the designated schedules can be taxed. When the horses in Sharkey v. Wernher were transferred from a stud farm operation to the taxpayer’s racing stables, they were transferred from a taxable schedule to a nontaxable category. Therefore, if there had not been a taxable event upon the transfer, there would never have been a further opportunity to tax. It is this distinction between schedular, taxable categories, and nonschedular, nontaxable categories that led to the contortions in the three cases.

Suggested Citation:

Newman, Joel S., A Comparative Look at Three British Tax Cases (June 12, 1995). Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 1509, 1995, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1698262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,851
RANK
552,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies