Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Corporate Performance Measures: Benchmarks Before Eva

12 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 1999

Stanley J. Garstka

Yale School of Management; Yale University - International Center for Finance

William N. Goetzmann

Yale School of Management - International Center for Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: July 12, 1999

Abstract

Modern accounting-based valuation models such as residual income and EVA may be thought of as careful estimates of the economic return to investors in excess of the firm's cost of capital. The framework for these models can be traced to theoretical and empirical work in the early part of the century, coincidental with the introduction of mathematical economics to America and with the availability of standardized accounting data for use by professional statisticians. By the middle of the century these "economic theory" and "practical empirical" tracks began to merge and corporate managers consciously adapted and applied performance evaluation technology in the decision making process.

The development of corporate performance measurement over the past century has its genesis in the work of statisticians, economists and managers who sought to understand the functions of the American corporation and through this understanding to improve its operation. In this essay, we trace the development of early attempts by academics to compare economic performance across firms using empirical data. We also list significant developments in economic theory that are relevant to the performance assessment of firms. We argue that, even though several of the key concepts driving today's measures of corporate performance had their origin in the 1920's, much of the debate about corporate performance evaluation which still rages today has to do with the ability (or lack of ability) to generate appropriate accounting numbers to input into the theoretically correct economic models.

JEL Classification: G39, M41, M46

Suggested Citation:

Garstka, Stanley J. and Goetzmann, William N., The Development of Corporate Performance Measures: Benchmarks Before Eva (July 12, 1999). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=170674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.170674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,824
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,778
RANK
2,444
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies