Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Profit: A Historical Perspective on the Development of Capitalism

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 205-221, February 2010

52 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2010

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 19, 2010

Abstract

The paper introduces the notion of different methods of calculating and analysing profitability as signatures of capitalism at different stages of development. Its point of departure is Bryer’s thesis of the capitalist mentality, which is subject to theoretical and empirical critique and developed in new directions. Interactions between the development of the productive forces and the socialisation of capital ownership jointly impact on these signatures, such that profit calculations are historically contingent. Aspects of feudalism, particularly restrictions on usury impacted upon accounting calculation, retarding their development. In the industrial revolution calculations reflected the scale and scope of specialised investment in plant, whilst the progressive socialisation of capital prompted a separate set of calculative practices. It was only in the twentieth century, with the unification of large scale industry and finance capital that the modern notion of profitability as return on capital employed finally developed.

Keywords: transition feudalism capitalism return on capital accounting calculation

JEL Classification: B1, B11, B14, B24, M40, N33, N53, N63, N83, P16

Suggested Citation:

Toms, Steve, Calculating Profit: A Historical Perspective on the Development of Capitalism (March 19, 2010). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 205-221, February 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1712043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
J Aho
Confession and bookkepping Posted: 2005
K R Andrews
Elizabethan privateering: English privateering during the Spanish war , p. 1585 - 1603 Posted: 1964
W J Ashley
Economic History , volume 1 Posted: 1931
Crossref
V Baladouni
Financial reporting in the early years of the East India Company
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 13 , p. 19 - 30 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,288
RANK
206,173
3 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies