Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
They Gotta Quit Kicking My Dog Around, II

9 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2011

George J. Staubus

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: December 31, 2005

Abstract

The decision-usefulness theory of accounting – the theory currently generally accepted by those interested in accounting theory – is under-appreciated. According to Hatfield’s three criteria – lineage, company, and service to society – decision-usefulness theory is highly respectable. Its base was laid by the creators of double-entry bookkeeping. It was developed a half century ago and has attracted a world-wide following among those concerned with the betterment of accounting. It serves with honor in accounting research and standards setting and has great potential in accounting education. Whether the enmity of those in the financial statement preparation community should be counted as a badge of honor or a demerit is a personal choice. Despite such impressive lineage, high-class company, and valuable service, the decision-usefulness theory of accounting “don’t get no respect.” They gotta quit kicking my dog around.

Suggested Citation:

Staubus, George J., They Gotta Quit Kicking My Dog Around, II (December 31, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1733266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1733266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Committee to Prepare a Statement of Basic Accounting Theory, A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory Posted: 1966
Committee on Concepts and Standards for External Financial Reports, Statement on Accounting Theory and Theory Acceptance Posted: 1977
Crossref
Report of the Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements, Objectives of Financial Statements Posted: 1973-10
Crossref
Ray Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evalluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
RANK
663,174
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies