Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theory Deficit in Accounting

15 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2011

George J. Staubus

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 31, 2010

Abstract

Accountants in all sectors of the accounting community – teachers, researchers, auditors, financial statement preparers, and standards setters – are handicapped by a lack of suitable accounting theories and a reluctance to use those that are available. These assertions are addressed from several directions. First, a definition and set of criteria of a good theory are proposed. Then, we consider theory in several other fields to provide some orientation. A classification scheme for accounting theories is proposed using the concepts of voice and domain. Fourteen candidates for theory status in the broad area of accounting are suggested and the apparent success of each in “the market place” is noted. The most common weaknesses appear to be failure to specify a limited domain and lack of importance of the apparent domain to significant numbers of accountants. Suggestions are made for contributions that theory could make to accounting education, research, standards setting, and the preparation of financial reports. The paper ends with a plea for work on accounting theories.

Suggested Citation:

Staubus, George J., The Theory Deficit in Accounting (December 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1733240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1733240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Konstantinos R. Pertsemlidis
The Accounting Properties of Economic Events (Part I: A Network Perspective)
43 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2012 · Last revised: 9 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 288
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Konstantinos R. Pertsemlidis
The Compositionality of Accounting Information Back to Basics
69 Pages · Posted: 29 Nov 2009 · Last revised: 13 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 334
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
983
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,440
RANK
40,902
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Theory Deficit in Accounting

By George J. Staubus

Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation Spreadsheets

By Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode and James A. Ohlson

Conceptual Issues in Financial Reporting

By Yuri Biondi, Jonathan C. Glover, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies