Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Accountability, Auditing, and Financial Scandals Over the Centuries

19 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2011

George J. Staubus

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: December 31, 2010

Abstract

A brief review of the meaning of accountability and related terms is followed by a search for the objectives that accountants have sought over the history of accounting, as revealed in accounting literature. They have included (1) accountability in situations involving conflicts of interests, (2) reporting the owner-manager’s wealth and income, (3) distinguishing between capital and income, or focusing on income, and (4) decision usefulness. No matter which objective is emphasized in the literature, to account is to be accountable, so accountability is inherent in accounting. Several features of the environment in which a series of financial scandals has occurred recently are identified and the responsibilities of certain segments of the broad field of accounting are given attention. The tendency for auditors to lack independence is viewed as critical. The key issue facing those accountants concerned with the accountability of corporate managements is whether the three-party arrangement for auditing can be changed to a two-party arrangement, or if patching holes in the three-part arrangement is all that can be expected.

Suggested Citation:

Staubus, George J., Accounting, Accountability, Auditing, and Financial Scandals Over the Centuries (December 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1733229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1733229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1933
W Buffett
Annual Report Posted: 2002
Crossref
J B Canning
The Economics of Accountancy Posted: 1929
R J Chambers
An Accounting Thesaurus: 500 Years of Accounting Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Karthik Ramanna
A Framework for Research on Corporate Accountability Reporting
Accounting Horizons 26, No. 2 (June 2013), Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 12-021 · 48 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2011 · Last revised: 8 May 2013 · Downloads: 2,177
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
687
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,395
RANK
86,703
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Framework for Research on Corporate Accountability Reporting

By Karthik Ramanna

Agency Problems of Corporate Philanthropy

By Ronald W. Masulis and Syed Walid Reza

Corporate Philanthropy, Research Networks, and Collaborative Innovation

By Fred Bereskin, Terry L. Campbell, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies