Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Focusing on Paradox in Financial Accounting

14 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011

Louella Moore

Arkansas State University

Date Written: January 14, 2011

Abstract

The accounting profession has not made much headway in admitting that the traditional double entry system is not capable of simultaneously rendering a sensible balance sheet and income statement under changing prices. Consequently, little effort has been focused on addressing basic epistemological questions of 'Why do these flaws and paradoxes exist?' or 'What is the inherent underlying cause or nature of these paradoxes?' This paper reminds us of unresolved problems and paradoxes in accounting and suggests that concepts from philosophy, physics and game theory might serve as launching points for the accounting profession to gain more insight into the nature of the paradoxes and contradictions that seem inherent in many phases of financial accounting practice.

Keywords: Accounting, Paradox, Physics, Game Theory, Philosophy, Public Interest

JEL Classification: C70, E30, D80, M41

Suggested Citation:

Moore, Louella, Focusing on Paradox in Financial Accounting (January 14, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1740759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1740759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Statement No. 26, Early Extinguishment of Debt Posted: 1972
Establishing Financial Accountants' Standards: Report of the Study on Establishment of Accounting Principles Posted: 1972
H Andersen , J Wullschlager
T Nunnally
Transl.). 2005. Fairy Tales
Load more
2 Citations
Eduard Braun
Accounting for Market Equilibrium – Comparing the Revenue-Expense to the Balance-Sheet Approach
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Olesia Lemishovska
Methodological tools in the processes of income and expenditure accounting: Contemporary discussions and developments in Galicia at the turn of the century
Economics Entrepreneurship Management , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 35 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
278,525
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies