Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Pyramid Fable (Revised)

Business History Review, Vol. 84, No. 3, pp. 435-58, 2010

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 11/04

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-02

25 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2011 Last revised: 23 Jan 2011

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Brian R. Cheffins

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 20, 2010

Abstract

Although corporate pyramids are currently commonplace world-wide and although there have been “noteworthy pyramiders” in American business history, this controversial form of corporate organization is now a rarity in the United States. The conventional wisdom is that corporate pyramids disappeared in the U.S. when New Deal policymakers began taxing dividends paid to corporate shareholders. This version of events is more fable than truth. The introduction of the intercorporate dividend tax did not foster a rapid dismantling of corporate pyramids. Instead, pyramidal arrangements were already rare in the U.S., other than in the utilities sector, and the demise of utility pyramids was prompted by the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 rather than tax reform.

This version should be referred to in preference to the version that appeared in print in the Business History Review, as this version incorporates a number of editorial changes not incorporated into the print version.

This is the revised and published version of an earlier working paper: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1544023.

Keywords: Corporate Pyramids, Dividends, corporate Taxation, Holding Companies

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A. and Cheffins, Brian R., The Corporate Pyramid Fable (Revised) (December 20, 2010). Business History Review, Vol. 84, No. 3, pp. 435-58, 2010, University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 11/04, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Means Bonbright
The Holding Company , p. 81 - 82
Ibid
80; see also 87
Charles S Tippetts , Shaw Livermore
Business Organization and Control: Corporations and Trusts in the United States
229. 68 Compiled from Berle and Means, The Modern Corporation, Table XIII Posted: 1932
Means Bonbright
The Holding Company , p. 227 - 255
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,744
RANK
231,675
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies