Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking North American Accounting Scholars Publishing Ethics Research: 1986 Through 2008

Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 14, pp. 139-174, 2010

Posted: 31 Jan 2011

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

David F. Bean

Independent

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

This research is a six-year extension of Bernardi’s (2005) initial ranking of the top ethics authors in accounting; it also represents a broadening of the scope of the original data into accounting’s top-40 journals. While Bernardi only considered publications in business-ethics journals in his initial ranking, we developed a methodology to identify ethics articles in accounting’s Top 40 journals. The purpose of this research is to provide a more complete list of accounting’s ethics authors for use by authors, administrators and other stakeholders. In this study, 26 business-ethics and accounting’s top-40 journals were analyzed for a 23-year period between 1986 through 2008. Our data indicate that 16.8 percent of the 4,680 colleagues with either a PhD or DBA who teach accounting at North American institutions had authored/coauthored one ethics article and only 6.3 percent had authored/coauthored more than one ethics article in the 66 journals we examined. Consequently, 83.2 percent of the PhDs and DBAs in accounting had not authored/coauthored even one ethics article.

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Bean, David F., Ranking North American Accounting Scholars Publishing Ethics Research: 1986 Through 2008 (December 1, 2010). Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 14, pp. 139-174, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752263
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies