Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critique of the Descriptive Power of the Private Interest Model of Professional Accounting Ethics: An Examination Over Time in the Irish Context

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 159-185, 2003

27 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2011

Mary Canning

Dublin City University Business School

Brendan O'Dwyer

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The primary aim of this study is to examine the descriptive power of the private interest model of professional accounting ethics developed by Parker in 1994. This examination is undertaken over an extended time period in the Irish context. It develops prior research which concluded that the operation of the professional ethics machinery of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland (CAI) facilitated private interest motives on the part of the ICAI. The paper draws on evidence regarding three critical events occurring outside the disciplinary process of the ICAI but impacting directly on its operation as well as on perceptions from within the process. The discourse surrounding the disciplinary process from 1994 to 2001 is examined using media coverage and ICAI pronouncements. This is augmented with in-depth interviews held with members of the ICAI disciplinary committees. The analysis provides evidence of pockets of support for the descriptive power of Parker’s model but also illustrates how the rigid and static nature of the separate roles depicted within the model can often fail to capture the complexity of the various changes occurring over the period examined. The study presents evidence which challenges the proposed interrelationships between the various private interest roles depicted in the model and makes some suggestions for the modification of the model, particularly the interrelationships depicted therein.

Keywords: accounting regulation, accounting profession, ethics, ethical codes, professional ethics

JEL Classification: M40,M41, M14, K23

Suggested Citation:

Canning, Mary and O'Dwyer, Brendan, A Critique of the Descriptive Power of the Private Interest Model of Professional Accounting Ethics: An Examination Over Time in the Irish Context (2003). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 159-185, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1759247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
As observed by one of the anonymous reviewers, we should point out that the analysis is only loosely over time: the 1994 to 2001 time period is, to quote the reviewer, merely``merely``a grain of sand in the continuum of time
Within this perspective, distinguishing characteristics of a professional such as the custody of specific knowledge, independence, altruism and self discipline are highlighted but remain largely unquestioned Posted: 1986
Parker
notes that these third parties may encompass corporate shareholders (or intending shareholders), borrowers and lenders, regulators, government, social interest groups, or any other members of the public Posted: 1994
Interference primarily from the Government and its agencies
Load more
1 Citations
Gillian McAllister , Nicole Sutton , David Andrew Brown , Olivia Rawlings-Way , Deborah Parker , Rachael Lewis , Jiali Yin , Bronwen Harrison
Using Public Inquiries as a Data Source for Accounting Research: A Systematic Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 84 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,808
RANK
409,562
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

On Professional Accounting Body Complaints Procedures: Confronting Professional Insulation and Professional Authority in the ICAI

By Brendan O'dwyer and Mary Canning

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies