Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Twentieth Century Academic Accounting’s Role in the Failure to Develop a Coherent Theory of Accounting

31 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2011

David Sutton

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Date Written: July 14, 2010

Abstract

This paper surveys key developments in accounting regulation theory over the twentieth century. The position is advanced that this project remains a work-in-progress that deserves the status of a key objective of accounting theoretical research. The nature of theoretical coherence is addressed, along with a case made for the desirability of a coherent theory of accounting regulation. The postulates of a coherent theory of accounting regulation are described and justified. Some preliminary indications are provided about the potential implications of the described coherent theory of accounting regulation. The undertaking is more circumscribed that Mattesich’s (1995) development of a coherent theory of accounting and, therefore, more achievable.

Keywords: Accounting Regulation Theory, Accounting History, Accounting Theoretical Coherence

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, David and van Zijl, Tony and Cordery, Carolyn J., Twentieth Century Academic Accounting’s Role in the Failure to Develop a Coherent Theory of Accounting (July 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1761660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1761660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
Committee to Prepare a Statement of Basic Accounting Theory. A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory
AAA Posted: 1966
How would research be effected by more emphasis on the stewardship role of accounting. A panel presentation at the 78 th meeting of the AAA
AAA Posted: 1993
Aicpa
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants). Statement by the Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1962
D Alexander , A Britton
Financial Reporting Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
128,170
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies