Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dynamics of Principals and Agents: Institutional Persistence and Change in U.S. Financial Regulation, 1934-2003

47 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2011

Tim Buthe

Technische Universität München (TUM) - School of Governance - Hochschule für Politik

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper seeks to advance our understanding of the politics of delegation. Principal-Agent theory identifies four major reasons for delegating regulatory authority. I first examine the implications for two "quasi-parameters" of P-A relationships: the level of agent discretion and the ease or political-economic cost of reversing the grant of authority. I then introduce a dynamic element to understand endogenous changes in the quasi-parameters as well as exogenously triggered changes in the terms of delegation, including at the extreme the re-appropriation of authority by the principal. This modification of P-A can explain both the increasing stability of such institutional arrangements over time and their sometimes sudden change. It thus addresses prominent criticisms of rationalist models of institutions while retaining the core assumptions of P-A theory. The primary empirical analysis of these dynamics focuses on the history of corporate financial reporting regulation in the U.S. since 1934; the penultimate section discusses the broader applicability of the analytical framework across the empirical subfields of Political Science.

Keywords: delegation, principal-agent, regulation, financial reporting, accounting standards, SEC

Suggested Citation:

Buthe, Tim, The Dynamics of Principals and Agents: Institutional Persistence and Change in U.S. Financial Regulation, 1934-2003 (March 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1796542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1796542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
James E Alt , Alberto Alesina
Political Economy: An Overview
A New Handbook of Political Science , p. 645 - 674 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Alison B Alter
Minimizing the Risks of Delegation: Multiple Referral in the German Bundesrat
American Journal of Political Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 299 - 315 Posted: 2002-04
Crossref
Karen J Alter
Establishing the Supremacy of European Law: The Making of an International Rule of Law in Europe Posted: 2001
Deborah D Avant
Political Institutions and Military Change: Lessons from Peripheral Wars Posted: 1994
Load more
6 Citations
Arne Niemann , Judith Huigens
The European Union's role in the G8: a principal–agent perspective
Journal of European Public Policy , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 420 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Tim Büthe
Global Private Politics: A Research Agenda
Business and Politics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Tim Büthe
Engineering Uncontestedness? The Origins and Institutional Development of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
Business and Politics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Tim Büthe
Private Regulation in the Global Economy: A (P)Review
Business and Politics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,582
RANK
268,746
6 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies