Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting at the London School of Economics: Opportunity Lost?

Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0909

22 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011

Christopher J. Napier

University of London - Royal Holloway College - School of Management

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

Given the aims of the founders of the London School of Economics, it is not surprising that accounting should have been taught at the School from soon after its establishment. An early focus on teaching practical accounting, with professional practitioners as teachers, was gradually supplanted by approaches informed by the economics of decision-making in conditions of scarce resources. By the 1930s, the Department of Business Administration provided an intellectual basis for thinking about financial reporting and costing that challenged taken-for-granted practices. After World War II, the “LSE Triumvirate” of William Baxter, Harold Edey and David Solomons took forward ideas of opportunity cost and value to the owner as core theoretical concepts, while developing undergraduate and later postgraduate programmes that provided rigorous education for future accountants, administrators, business people and academics. However, by the late 1960s, the Department of Accounting missed the opportunity of responding to changes in research focus in North America, which were influenced by developments in financial economics. The outcome was an erosion of research leadership, with other UK universities becoming the main centres of quantitative and critical accounting research.

Keywords: Accounting ideas, value to the owner, opportunity cost, economics of accounting, accounting education

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Napier, Christopher John, Accounting at the London School of Economics: Opportunity Lost? (November 1, 2009). Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0909, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802497 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1802497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Ackrill
Sir Ronald Stanley Edwards (1910-1976)
Oxford Dictionary of National Biography Posted: 2004-05
N Bailey
Harold Cecil Edey: 20th Century Accounting Reformer. Peterborough: Books on Demand Posted: 2009
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W T Baxter
Accounting as an Academic Study". The Accountant, 6 March , p. 181 - 185 Posted: 1948
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
518,107
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Economics Educator: Courses, Cases & Teaching eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies