Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of Accounting and Auditing Standards in Corporate Financial Reporting in Nigeria; Emphasis on Compliance

The Nigerian Accountant, Vol. 39, No. 4, 2006

10 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Grace N. Ofoegbu

University of Nigeria

Date Written: April 4, 2011

Abstract

Accounting and auditing practices are regulated with standards worldwide. They have been developed over the years even though their history of development is of a shorter period than the accountancy profession self. The need for the development of accounting and auditing standards arose from the birth of joint stock companies in 1844, which was accompanied with separation of control and ownership. The separation requires that managers should report to the owners how they (managers) had faired with the stewardship and the resources entrusted into their hands on periodic basis. This resulted in divergent accounting system and published accounts. Unfortunately there were no defined accounting methods and standards for published accounts, as a result directors who managed the business manipulated accounts to suit their own personal interest. For instance, Mathews and Perera (1996:13) noted, most corporate officials took the view that so long as they acted in good faith, it was up to them what disclosure- to provide in financial statements. Hence the need arose to protect the interest of investors who could not take part in the day-to-day running of the business by regulating the accounting practices of these managers.

Keywords: auditing standards, financial reporting, compliance, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Ofoegbu, Grace N., The Relevance of Accounting and Auditing Standards in Corporate Financial Reporting in Nigeria; Emphasis on Compliance (April 4, 2011). The Nigerian Accountant, Vol. 39, No. 4, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Dayo Babatunde
Regulatory and Professional Challenges of Posted: 2002
Abuja Sheraton Hotels and Towers , p. 1 - 19
H Beaver , Kennelly W Williams , Voss M John , William
Predictive Ability as a Criterion for the Evaluation of Accounting Data Posted: 1987
Pieter
Accounting Theory and Policy , p. 119 - 129
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
863
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,304
RANK
64,232
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies