Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fairness of Fair Value: SFAS 157, Irving Fisher and GECON

15 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2011

Paulo Roberto B. Lustosa

University of Brasilia

Date Written: April 18, 2011

Abstract

Fair value measurement is increasingly spreading in accounting standards. In February/201'8 it was present in 61 FASB pronouncements. Such diffusion led to the issuance of SFAS 157 - Fair Value Measurements, in which many prior definitions and measurement requirements, presented in other pronouncements, were replaced by a single standard on this subject. But the expansion of situations in which fair value measurement is required makes more difficult to ensure that the computed measure of value is actually fair. Out of the objectivity of current sales prices in an active market, all other measures of value are expectations about the future, inherently uncertain and inaccurate. Thus, the desired justice of the computed figures lies not in its accuracy, but in the using of the correct concepts for measuring accounting transactions and events. This article examines whether it is correct the fair value concept and measurement structure present in SFAS 157. For such, the characteristics of this principle are confronted with the secular concept of capital and income set by the laureate American neoclassical economist Irving Fisher, which were incorporated into GECON – Information System for Economic Management – a Brazilian managerial accounting model developed in the University of Sao Paulo by the now retired professor Armando Catelli. The results indicate that SFAS 157 fair value concept and measurement structure are incorrect or incomplete, suggesting that the maintenance of the fair value expression in accounting seems inadequate.

Suggested Citation:

Lustosa, Paulo Roberto B., The Fairness of Fair Value: SFAS 157, Irving Fisher and GECON (April 18, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1814176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1814176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research. v , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W H Beaver
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting Research Supplement , volume 6 Posted: 1968
Crossref
J B Canning
The Economics of Accountancy: A Critical Analysis of Accounting Theory Posted: 1929
Load more
2 Citations
Kleber Vasconcellos de Oliveira , Paulo Roberto B. Lustosa
Mensuração a Valor Justo e seu Impacto no Capital Regulamentar dos Bancos: Uma Análise Empírica Comparativa Brasil/EUA/China (Fair Value Measurement and its Impact in Banks Regulatory Capital: An Empirical Comparison amongst Brazil, US and China)
20 Pages · Posted: 2 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 5 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Iryna Plikus
Investigation of the Existing Methodology of Value Estimation and Methods of Discount Rate Estimation
Technology audit and production reserves — No 1/4(39), 2018, pp 21-26, · 6 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 5 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 66
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
232,542
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies