Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Occurrence and Timing of Events: The Application of Event History Models in Accounting and Finance Research

79 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 1999

Marc J. LeClere

Valparaiso University

Date Written: September 1999

Abstract

Event history analysis is a statistical method concerned with the study of events and the substantive processes that govern the occurrence and timing of events. Many research studies focusing on events use qualitative response models such as probit or logistic regression and typically examine the relation between the probability of an event and a set of covariates for a single year. Event history models, on the other hand, use longitudinal rather than cross-sectional data and focuses on the process that governs the occurrence and timing of events rather than the observation of a specific state.

In this paper I review event history models and their applications in accounting and finance research. The paper discusses the issues of censored observations and time-varying covariates and reviews the more commonly used survival distributions. I provide a review of the trade-offs involved in choosing among non-parametric, parametric, and semi-parametric models as well as competing risk, multi-episode, and multi-episode/multi-state models.

JEL Classification: C41, M41

Suggested Citation:

LeClere, Marc J., The Occurrence and Timing of Events: The Application of Event History Models in Accounting and Finance Research (September 1999). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=181553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.181553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Discussion of "financial ratios and corporate endurance: A case of the oil and gas industry
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 695 - 705 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P D Allison
Event history analysis Posted: 1984
P D Allison
Survival analysis using the SAS system: A practical guide Posted: 1995
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 690 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,142
RANK
5,739
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Leveraged Buyouts and Private Equity

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Leveraged Buyouts and Private Equity

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Do Buyouts (Still) Create Value‘

By Shourun Guo, Edith S. Hotchkiss, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies