Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Activity-Based Management in France: A Focus on the Information Systems Department of a Bank

Proceedings of the EBMM 2011 International Conference, 2011

6 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2011

Gregory Wegmann

University of Burgundy - IAE Dijon School of Management, CREGO EA 7317

Date Written: January 10, 2011

Abstract

The aim of the paper is to describe the Activity-based Costing and Management methods applied in France. For that purpose, we use a literature review and a case study. In a first time, we analyze the origins of the methods and their diffusion. Then we present the French situation. Finally, we propose a case study that takes place in a French bank. Our paper shows that the ABC and ABM methods are as developed in France as in the Anglo-Saxon countries and that the methods are strategically oriented.

Keywords: activity based costing, activity-based management, case study, bank

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wegmann, Grégory, Activity-Based Management in France: A Focus on the Information Systems Department of a Bank (January 10, 2011). Proceedings of the EBMM 2011 International Conference, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1858710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
S Alcouffe , N Berland , B Dreveton , M Essid , M
An empirical study of environmental cost drivers
Congress of the Francophone Accounting Association Posted: 2010-05
S Alcouffe
La diffusion et l'adoption des innovations managériales en comptabilité et contrôle de gestion : le cas de l'ABC en France (Diffusion and adoption of management innovations in Accounting and Management Accounting: the case of the ABC in France) Posted: 2004
S W Anderson , S M Young
The Impact of Contextual and Process Factors on the Evaluation of Activity-Based Costing Systems
Accounting Organization and Society , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 525 - 559 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R N Anthony
La fonction contrôle de gestion [The Management Accounting Function Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
878
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,346
RANK
62,650
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies