Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commentary: An Insider's View of the Current State and Future Direction of International Accounting Standard Setting

Posted: 15 Nov 1999

Warren McGregor

Stevenson McGregor

Abstract

When the editor asked me to write a commentary on international accounting standards and their role in world capital markets my first thought was "what can I add to the debate?" In recent years much has been written about the subject by many eminent writers. And the flow of commentary does not look as if it will be abating in the foreseeable future with the evaluation by the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) of the International Accounting Standards Committee's (IASC's) core standards and the IASC addressing the issue of whether, and if so how, it should restructure.

I could, of course, provide my assessment of the need for a set of high-quality international accounting standards and their potential impact on the flow of capital between markets and the pricing of capital within markets. However, this ground has been well tilled. Moreover, it seems to me that the issue before us now is not so much whether we should have a set of high-quality international standards, but when and how this might be achieved. These are the matters on which attention will be focused over the next year or so.

It is to these matters then that I have addressed myself in this commentary. I have endeavored to provide you with a perspective from the "inside" from one who has been a national accounting standard setter for the past 20 years and an international accounting standard setter for the past 16 years.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

McGregor, Warren, Commentary: An Insider's View of the Current State and Future Direction of International Accounting Standard Setting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=186138
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,059
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies