Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Traditional Accountants and Business Professionals: Portraying the Accounting Profession after Enron

SoMWP Working Paper No. 0901

33 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2011

Christopher J. Napier

University of London - Royal Holloway College - School of Management

Garry D. Carnegie

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: January 1, 2009

Abstract

Society’s perception of the legitimacy of the accounting profession and its members is grounded in the verbal and visual images of accountants that are projected not only by accountants themselves but also by the media. The paper uses the critical literature on stereotypes to examine how books written for a general readership on Enron and other corporate failures portray accountants and accounting, and the implications their authors draw for corporate governance and the survival of the financial system. The paper explores how commentators have analysed the changing activities of accountants (including the rise of consulting) and have contrasted the personalities of, “founding fathers,” of the US accounting profession with their early 21st-Century successors. The paper concludes that changing stereotypes of accountants may be evidence of, “negative signals of movement,” for the accounting profession, threatening accounting’s ongoing professionalization project.

Keywords: Accounting profession, Enron, stereotypes, professionalization, auditing, popular management

Suggested Citation:

Napier, Christopher John and Carnegie, Garry D., Traditional Accountants and Business Professionals: Portraying the Accounting Profession after Enron (January 1, 2009). SoMWP Working Paper No. 0901, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1871879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1871879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
R L Abel
Lawyers: A critical reader Posted: 1997
S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting education: Charting the course through a perilous future Posted: 2000
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Making up accountants: The organizational and professional socialization of trainee chartered accountants Posted: 1998
B Arnold , P De Lange
Enron: an examination of agency problems
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 15 , p. 751 - 765 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,125
RANK
100,824
9 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Enron: Corporate Fiascos and Their Implications (Acknowledgements & Introduction)

By Nancy B. Rapoport and Bala G. Dharan

The Accountant’s Social Background and Stereotype in Popular Culture: The Novels of Alexander Clark Smith

By Lisa Evans and Ian A.m. Fraser

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies