Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Outsiders in Mississippi

State Tax Notes, Vol. 24, No. 13, June 24, 2002

10 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2011 Last revised: 29 Jul 2011

Stephanie D. Moussalli

University of Mississippi-Patterson School of Accountancy

Tonya Flesher

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 24, 2002

Abstract

Mississippi began levying sales taxes and other taxes that discriminated fiercely against political outsiders in 1822. Designed to protect local businesses, the higher taxes targeted peddlers, auctioneers, and other traveling vendors in the early 19th century. After the Civil War, the targets changed as retailing changed, to include itinerant vendors of all types, including gypsy bands, fortune tellers, patent medicine salesmen, out-of-state trappers, and employment agents offering out-of-state jobs. In the 20th century, transient vendors bearing higher taxes did NOT include vendors needed by Mississippi businesses (such as business-to-business salesmen) but did include double taxes on chain stores until the courts stopped it. In the 21st century, Mississippi has helped lead the fight against the Internet Tax Freedom Act, so that it could tax sales by internet vendors from other states as heavily as it taxes vendors who have a physical presence in Mississippi. The state’s nearly 2'02year tradition of protecting local businesses by heavy taxation of political outsiders is costly to Mississippi consumers but protects the politicians from voter retaliation.

Keywords: Mississippi, taxation, history of taxation, sales tax, tax policy

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H71, N41, N42

Suggested Citation:

Moussalli, Stephanie D. and Flesher, Tonya, Taxing Outsiders in Mississippi (June 24, 2002). State Tax Notes, Vol. 24, No. 13, June 24, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1885727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Lewis E Atherton
The Southern Country Store , p. 1800 - 1860 Posted: 1949
Robert D Atkinson
Middlemen Fight Consumer Choice
Consumers' Research , volume 84 , p. 10 - 15 Posted: 2001-04
Digest of the Laws of Mississippi, Comprising All the Laws of a General Nature, Including the Acts of the Session of 1839
Donald Bruce , William F Fox
State and Local Sales Tax Revenue Losses From E-Commerce: Updated Estimates Posted: 2001-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,211
RANK
753,736
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies