Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of Dr. William L. Campfield’s Contributions to Diversifying Accounting Education and Practice

25 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2011 Last revised: 29 Feb 2012

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Date Written: February 24, 2012

Abstract

In 1951, William L. Campfield became the first African American CPA/Ph.D. Through a practitioner-in-residence program for government executives he helped create, he was able to spend nearly half his fifty year career in practice and the other in academe. He served as VP of the American Accounting Association, on faculty of over 20 universities, and authored over 100 articles. In 1986, he retired from Florida International University as a full professor and died shortly thereafter. As of 2005, he remains the 21st (and top African American) most prolific publisher in The Accounting Review. The primary purpose of this manuscript is not only to highlight his achievements, but also to perpetuate his legacy. This manuscript complements extant literature on the contributions of African Americans to the accounting profession by describing Dr. Campfield’s life and contributions to accounting research and practice.

Keywords: Diversity, William Campfield, Internal Audit

JEL Classification: M49, N40

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck, An Assessment of Dr. William L. Campfield’s Contributions to Diversifying Accounting Education and Practice (February 24, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1908752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1908752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
The , D Ph
Project targets a specific population of minorities, which include persons of African American, Native American, and Hispanic descent
Students and faculty in the report represent those self-selecting to participate in the Ph
The lineage and background on Dr. Campfield was obtained in one discussion and a review of documentation provided by A. Herbert Holmes (nephew of Dr. Campfield)
Dr , T Booker , Washington Founded Tuskegee Instititute
Known now as Tuskegee University, the nickname is "the pride of the swift, growing south" Tuskegee University. (n.d.) History of tuskegee university Posted: 1881-07-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,765
RANK
268,746
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies