Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accrual Accounting on Public Sector Management: An Exploratory Study for Romania

Transilvanian Review of Administrative Sciences, No. 32E, February 2011

29 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2011

Adela Deaconu

Babes-Bolyal University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Nistor Cristina Silvia

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Filip Crina

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: August 17, 2011

Abstract

This research is intended to supplement comparative national studies, which represent a challenge to accounting history for the last decades, explaining the Romanian public accounting practices in their local and time-specific context, taking into question the case of the entities owned by the government. In essence, the findings show the materialization of accrual accounting benefits for Romania as an emerging economy and in terms of all independent variables used in the study, fixed assets, liabilities, revenues and costs. It also shows the gradual evolution of finding the advantages of the Romanian accounting system’s transition from a cash basis to an accrual basis in the two analyzed stages, the transition and post-reform periods. It proves thus the correlation between the pace of regulatory changes and their application in practice, indirectly confirming the orientation of the Romanian standard-setters towards IPSAS and accrual accounting. Moreover, this research is an argument for the importance of accounting and of the economic analysis which the study can support through proper financial reporting.

Keywords: accrual accounting, cash accounting, public sector management, emerging countries

Suggested Citation:

Deaconu, Adela and Cristina Silvia, Nistor and Crina, Filip, The Impact of Accrual Accounting on Public Sector Management: An Exploratory Study for Romania (August 17, 2011). Transilvanian Review of Administrative Sciences, No. 32E, February 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
L Anselmi , L&apos;azienda Comune
Posted: 2001
M Arnaboldi , I Lapsley
On the Implementation of Accrual Accounting: A Study of Conflict and Ambiguity
European Accounting Review , volume 18 , p. 809 - 836 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Aucoin
Administrative Reform in Public Management: Paradigms, Principles, Paradoxes And Pendulums , volume 3 , p. 115 - 137 Posted: 1990
Crossref
D Bailey
Accounting in transition in the transitional economy
The European Accounting Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 595 - 623 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,400
RANK
20,486
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies