Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neue Rechnungslegungsnormen im Handelsrecht (New Accounting Standards in Commercial Law)

Martin Gelter, NEUE RECHNUNGSLEGUNGSNORMEN IM HANDELSRECHT, Verlag Österreich, 2001

408 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Martin Gelter

Fordham University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 30, 2001

Abstract

This book (published in 2001 in German language by Verlag Österreich in Vienna) discusses the internationalization of financial accounting from a corporate and accounting law perspective.

Chapter 1 discusses criticism of the traditional accounting systems in the German-speaking countries, and why policymakers were seeking to remedy these by transitioning to IAS (now IFRS) on the level of group accounts.

Chapter 2 describes the accounting principles in existence at the time of writing, their legal character, and the standard setting process. Besides accounting law, this includes the “principles of proper bookkeeping” in Germany and Austria, EU principles such as the “true and fair view”, and pronouncements of professional bodies.

Chapter 3 provides an international comparison by looking at the accounting standard setting process in the United States, the United Kingdom, and at the IASC (now IASB), and it also discusses the legal basis of the recently created German Accounting Standards Committee.

Chapter 4 investigates potential problems the introduction of IAS (now IFRS) would have to face in a corporate law system such as the Austrian one, which is heavily based on the Second EU Company Law Directive and thus defines core legal concepts (e.g. “asset”) in a different way than IAS/IFRS or US GAAP do. The use of concepts such as fair value in individual accounts would therefore require, from the 2001 perspective, various changes to the legal capital system.

Consequently, chapter 5 addresses the possibility of distinguishing between different sets of accounting standards within the legal system, i.e. between entity level and consolidated accounts, between different legal forms, between publicly traded and privately held firms, and between financial and tax accounting.

Chapter 6 discusses whether and how an Austrian accounting standards board could be introduced, and what legal basis its pronouncements could have.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: IAS, IFRS, FASB, ASB, IASB, Tax Conformity, Massgeblichkeitsprinzip, DRSC, Fourth Directive, Seventh Directive, Second Directive, ÖNORMEN, Capital Maintanance, HGB, Commercial Code, Austria, Germany

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gelter, Martin, Neue Rechnungslegungsnormen im Handelsrecht (New Accounting Standards in Commercial Law) (June 30, 2001). Martin Gelter, NEUE RECHNUNGSLEGUNGSNORMEN IM HANDELSRECHT, Verlag Österreich, 2001 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1915628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,278
RANK
373,668
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies