Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spain

A GLOBAL HISTORY OF ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND PUBLIC POLICY: EUROPE: STUDIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACCOUNTING THOUGHT, pp. 165-191, G.J. Previts, & P. Walton, eds., Emerald, 2011

Posted: 12 Sep 2011

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Marta Macias

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: September 12, 2011

Abstract

The origins of financial reporting in the Iberian Peninsula can be traced back to the thirteenth century, when evidences of manorial accounting but also commercial accounting can be found. The subsequent evolution of financial reporting is influenced by the Castilian hegemony in the 16th century, not only in the Peninsula, but in a substantial part of the world as well. The configuration of the Castilian state shaped the evolution of accounting since the 15th century, with the subsequent decline in the 17th century and the partial recovery in the 18th century. The first section of this chapter is devoted to the description of those antecedents, from the low middle age to the 18th century.

In terms of accounting history, the 19th century starts in Spain with a low level of accounting practice but increasingly the commercial regulation allowed the creation of the large limited companies, especially in the financial, railways and mining sectors. However, financial reporting by Spanish companies lagged behind the development of other countries and its evolution well into the twentieth century was the outcome of the influence of foreign investors.

The third period considered starts in the middle of the 20th century, in a period characterised by the development of financial markets and the internationalisation of the Spanish economy. During this period, the evolution of accounting is Spain is explained by the need to catch up with the norms and rules that were found overseas.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Larrinaga, Carlos and Macias Dorissa, Marta, Spain (September 12, 2011). A GLOBAL HISTORY OF ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND PUBLIC POLICY: EUROPE: STUDIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACCOUNTING THOUGHT, pp. 165-191, G.J. Previts, & P. Walton, eds., Emerald, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926239
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,462
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies