Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anglo-American Corporate Taxation: Tracing the Common Roots of Divergent Approaches

ANGLO-AMERICAN CORPORATE TAXATION: TRACING THE COMMON ROOTS OF DIVERGENT APPROACHES, Cambridge University Press, 2011

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-15

24 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2011

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: October 4, 2011

Abstract

The U.K. and the U.S. have historically represented opposite ends of the spectrum in their approaches to taxing corporate income. Under the British approach, corporate and shareholder income taxes have been integrated under an imputation system, with tax paid at the corporate level imputed to shareholders through a full or partial credit against dividends received. Under the American approach, by contrast, corporate and shareholder income taxes have remained separate under what is called a “classical” system in which shareholders have received, until very recently, little or no relief from a second layer of taxes on dividends.

This excerpt is the introduction from a book entitled Anglo-American Corporate Taxation: Tracing the Common Roots of Divergent Approaches (Cambridge University Press 2011). The book explores the evolution of the corporate income tax systems in each country during the 19th and 20th centuries to understand the common legal, economic, political, and cultural forces that produced such divergent approaches and explains why convergence may be likely in the future as each country grapples with corporate taxation in an era of globalization.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation Policy, British Tax Policy, U.S. Tax Policy, Shareholder Income Tax, Dividend Tax

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A., Anglo-American Corporate Taxation: Tracing the Common Roots of Divergent Approaches (October 4, 2011). ANGLO-AMERICAN CORPORATE TAXATION: TRACING THE COMMON ROOTS OF DIVERGENT APPROACHES, Cambridge University Press, 2011, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1938656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Taxation, State, and Civil Society in Germany and the United States from the 18 th to the 20 th Century Posted: 2007
Crossref
Sven Steinmo
Taxation & Democracy: Swedish, British, and American Approaches to Financing the Modern State Posted: 1993
Crossref
Comparative Income Taxation: A Structural Analysis Posted: 2010
Crossref
Victor Thuronyi
Comparative Tax Law Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,277
RANK
331,643
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies