Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Controls and Accounting Restatements Under Sarbanes-Oxley Regime: A Survey of Literature

22 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2011 Last revised: 24 Oct 2011

Joshua King Obeng-Nyarko

University of Essex

Date Written: October 10, 2011

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 of the U. S. was passed to instil investor confidence in financial reporting following the spectacular collapse of high ranking firms in the US. Sections 302 and 404 provide clear guidelines to both management and their auditors on their respective roles as well as stipulating the penalties for non-compliance. The role of internal controls failures in corporate collapses cannot be overstated; however, not much attention has been paid to it in the past. Thanks to this act, the role of internal control over financial reporting has been recognized for some time now as an important component of corporate governance for both management and auditors (Kinney, 2000).

Using mainly electronic searches, this critical review has found that scholars do not agree over the significance of sections 302 and 404 on internal control over financial reporting. Since the ACT was passed to improve the quality of financial reporting and to bring back investor confidence in the capital markets, the apparent inconsistencies over its impact on companies, provides opportunities for further research, especially from the UK companies perspective.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX, The ACT, Restatements, Internal Controls

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Obeng-Nyarko, Joshua King, Internal Controls and Accounting Restatements Under Sarbanes-Oxley Regime: A Survey of Literature (October 10, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1941839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1941839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
K M Aguilar
Huge Progress in Section 404 Compliance. Compliance Weekly Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , W D Collins , J Kinney , W R La-Fond , R
The effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J C Bedard , L Graham
Detection and Severity Classifications of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 Internal Control Deficiencies
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 825 - 855 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Besch
speech by SEC Staff: Remarks before the 2009 AICPA National Conference on Current SEC and PCAOB Developments Posted: 2009-12-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,850
RANK
149,881
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Determinants of Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Accruals Quality and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Internal Control Weakness and Cost of Equity: Evidence from Sox Section 404 Disclosures

By Maria Ogneva, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies