Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legality of Tax Avoidance Before and after DTC

15 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2011

Kushal Gupta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 22, 2011

Abstract

Over the past century there have been various decisions which either developed the law or departed completely from the existing law over the acceptable means of tax avoidance and even the legality of tax avoidance. The Author in this paper traces the history of acceptable means and legality of tax avoidance from the beginning of 20th century and then shows the contrast between the law which prevailed in the previous century and the General Anti-Avoidance Rules (GAAR) laid down under DTC, which is expected to come in force w.e.f. April 1 2012. This paper has been divided into four parts on the basis of certain landmark decisions which marked a change in the law relating to tax avoidance. Each part discusses the law governing during that period and how it has changed from the previous period.

The author concludes that the GAAR provisions are opposite to the well established principles of acceptable tax avoidance which ruled the past century. The GAAR provisions are so wide in their ambit that they have the effect of almost making tax avoidance illegal, and even blur the distinction between tax mitigation and tax avoidance, thereby even making tax mitigation illegal.

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax evasion, Ramsay, McDowell, Azadi, DTC, Gaar provisions

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Kushal, Legality of Tax Avoidance Before and after DTC (October 22, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1947798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
SCC (3) 230, 254
Explain what colourable devices are here
Meenakshi Raman
CTR (Cal) 245, para 35
Cal) , volume 38 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
340,955
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies