Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Dominance and Submission: Disciplining Building Societies with Accounting-Based Regulation, Circa 1960

38 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2011

Bernardo Batiz-Lazo

Northumbria University

Masayoshi Noguchi

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Date Written: November 7, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines how accounting-based regulation modified the operation of one type of participant in British retail finance. Specifically, the House Purchase and Housing Act, 1959 and Building Societies Act, 1960 gave the Registrar of Friendly Societies new powers of intervention and these were used to discipline building societies revealing inadequate use of their funds. Although only a tiny fraction of existing societies were ultimately sanctioned, they all observed important deviations from specified accounting-based criteria that were generally recognized as financially sound within the industry. Intervention, however, was also motivated by two other factors: the successful lobbying by the Building Society Association to discipline non-members; and attempts by the Registrar to stop property developers from abusing moribund London-based societies. Results provide enough evidence to suggest that other studies’ assessment that managers of British retail financial intermediaries disregarded accounting information in executive decisions need to be revised in light of the fact that the accounting control of building societies was supplemented by the disciplinary power granted to state regulators (as represented by the Treasury and the Registrar of Friendly Societies).

Keywords: accounting-based regulation, House Purchase and Housing Act, 1959, Building Societies Act, 1960, Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies, HM Treasury, the Building Societies Association, disciplinary power, reserve ratio, property developers

Suggested Citation:

Batiz-Lazo, Bernardo and Noguchi, Masayoshi, Accounting for Dominance and Submission: Disciplining Building Societies with Accounting-Based Regulation, Circa 1960 (November 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1955932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1955932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,509
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of Improved Auditor Independence on Audit Market Concentration in China

By Mark L. Defond, T.j. Wong, ...

Financial Packaging of IPO Firms in China

By Joseph Aharony, Jevons Lee, ...

Earnings Management and Capital Resource Allocation: Evidence from China's Accounting-Based Regulation of Rights Issue

By Kevin C. W. Chen and Hongqi Yuan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies