Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors and the Supervision of Retail Finance: Evidence from Two Small-Sized Building Societies, 1976-1978

33 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2011

Bernardo Batiz-Lazo

Northumbria University

Masayoshi Noguchi

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Date Written: November 7, 2011

Abstract

This study adds to the accounting history literature by looking at features common to major defalcations in two small-sized building societies (namely the Wakefield and the Grays). These features were the dominance of an individual over a building society’s systems, and poor systems of internal control and supervision. Because they failed to recognise the significance of these factors sufficiently, auditors of both societies were criticised for failing to discharge their duties as expected under the Building Societies Act 1960 (which had introduced a new auditing regime by requiring the auditors to examine whether the directors of a society complied with its requirement to establish and maintain a system of internal control and, if not, to report thereon). The cases of the Wakefield and the Grays were a turning point in the supervision of retail financial intermediaries. Prior to them the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies had adopted a reactive approach to supervision, which effectively delegated the monitoring of the societies to external auditors. After the defalcations were uncovered, they showed there was a lack of productive communication between the Registry and external auditors. As a result, it was felt there was a need to reform and adopt a proactive approach to supervision of the societies under which the Registry was to directly examine the quality of the auditor’s work. The professional accountants, as represented by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, initially resisted such reform. But ultimately, accountants could not help but accept it.

Keywords: corporate governance (the system of internal control), Building Societies Act 1960 (BSA60), the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies (CRFS), the Treasury, building societies, supervision of retail financial intermediaries, delegated monitoring, UK

Suggested Citation:

Batiz-Lazo, Bernardo and Noguchi, Masayoshi, Auditors and the Supervision of Retail Finance: Evidence from Two Small-Sized Building Societies, 1976-1978 (November 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1955934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1955934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Barclays Group Archives -1023-0839 Grays Building Society Board Meeting Minute Book 21 Posted: 1973-06-08
Crossref
Bga/Grays , Board
Posted: 1976-06-25
BGA/Grays Board, Meeting of the 22 Posted: 1976-07
Crossref
BGA/Grays Board, Meeting of the Posted: 1976-08-19
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,861
RANK
819,727
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Choice Architecture

By Richard H. Thaler, Cass R. Sunstein, ...

Microcredit in Pre-Famine Ireland

By Aidan Hollis and Arthur Sweetman

The Influence of the Institutional Context on Corporate Illegality

By Claudia Gabbioneta, Royston Greenwood, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies