Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seeds of Innovation in Accounting Scholarship

26 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2011

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 21, 2011

Abstract

Hopwood and other senior scholars have suggested that accounting scholarship has become stagnant and lacks the spirit of innovation that previously motivated the discipline. In this essay I build on these authors’ assertions to address two questions. First, what causal forces account for this state of affairs? Second, given such forces, what can be done to improve matters? I argue that intellectual stagnancy in accounting scholarship is manifested in (1) excessively derivative research, (2) overemphasis on “career management” among junior scholars, (3) limited scholarly discussion and debate, and (4) too much emphasis on accounting standard setters to define our research and teaching agendas. The causal forces driving the evolution of accounting scholarship over the past quarter century include: (1) large real salary increases for assistant professors in accounting, (2) changes in graduate business education that have de-emphasized doctoral education, (3) a relative shift towards financial reporting in accounting research and teaching, and (4) changes in the way research quality is assessed. Changes in accounting scholarship thus have built cumulatively from individual actions that are locally optimal but have been associated with unintended and unforeseeable cumulative consequences for the discipline as a whole. A final section summarizes several suggestions put forth at a May 2011 strategic retreat for what the American Accounting Association (AAA) can do to improve this state of affairs over the long run.

Keywords: innovation, accounting research

JEL Classification: M40, B29

Suggested Citation:

Waymire, Gregory B., Seeds of Innovation in Accounting Scholarship (November 21, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1962850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1962850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
! Big#issues#initiative
!It!was!suggested!that!once!every!two!to!three!years,!a! standing!AAA!committee!would!identify!a!major!issue!where!more!research!is! needed.!Then,!two!or!three!years!hence
! White#paper , Finally
!there!was!considerable!interest!in!forming!a!study!group!of! experienced!AAA!members!to!prepare!a!White!Paper!on!the!current!state!of! accounting!scholarship.!This!document!would!serve!to!highlight!current!areas!for! improvement!and!suggest!ways!that!accreditation!bodies
There!are!several!"next!steps"!we!can!undertake!over!the!next!year!to!build!
! Second
!I!believe!we!need!to!make!some!changes!in!our!Doctoral!and!New!
Load more
11 Citations
Kenneth J. Smith , David J. Emerson
An Analysis of Professional Competence Indicator Possession among U.S. Accounting Faculty
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 17 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Sony Warsono
Solving the Mystery of Double Entry Bookkeeping
15 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2013 · Downloads: 798
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Konstantinos R. Pertsemlidis
The Compositionality of Accounting Information Back to Basics
69 Pages · Posted: 29 Nov 2009 · Last revised: 13 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 334
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paul F. Williams
The Myth of Rigorous Accounting Research
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 869 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,546
RANK
219,016
11 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Innovation & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies