Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Coming of Age of Enterprise Taxation in China

Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 2-12, August 2011

21 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2011

Natalie P. Stoianoff

University of Technology Sydney, Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 22, 2011

Abstract

This article commences with a brief historical overview of the taxation system in China and provides a context for the key elements relevant to foreign enterprises since the Open Door Policy. The unified taxation of domestic and foreign owned business enterprises recognises the maturity of China’s economy and the greater role that domestic enterprises are playing in the world economy and, consequently, the need to ensure competition is on a level footing. However, the primary concern of this article is to provide an analysis of the ‘principles based’ unified enterprise income tax regime that commenced operation on 1 January 2008 together with its implementing regulations. This analysis reinforces China’s integration of western tax concepts albeit in a much simplified manner than most economically developed regimes. However, the unified regime does pave the way for China to utilise the benefits of that unification to enable development of better wealth distribution throughout the nation and thereby enhance economic development.

This article also demonstrates that domestic businesses were at a disadvantage before this unification and that disadvantage led to behaviour that sought to circumvent the disadvantage by utilising the loopholes available between the Domestic and Foreign Enterprise tax rules. The article concludes that this reform is as much an attempt at ensuring competition is equal between domestic and foreign sectors of the Chinese economy as it is about dealing with tax avoidance. The introduction of specific and general anti-avoidance measures is evidence of this dual purpose. It is perhaps too early to judge the performance of this new regime, but once the grandfathering arrangements come to an end, the true impact of the unified Enterprise Income Tax Law will become apparent.

Keywords: Enterprise Tax, Chinese Tax, China Tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Stoianoff, Natalie P., The Coming of Age of Enterprise Taxation in China (November 22, 2011). Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 2-12, August 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1963513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Jinyan Li
China's Tax System: An Evaluation (Spring
Denver Journal of International Law & Policy , volume 527
Crossref
Ho
See also Li , volume 3
Li
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
238,435
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies