Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fifteen Years in the Trenches: Auditor-Client Negotiations Exposed and Explored

79 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2011

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: November 15, 2011

Abstract

The study of auditor client management negotiations dates back twenty years with the publication of the first analytical model of negotiations in 1991. However, that article made next to no impact until Gibbins, Salterio and their later collaborators began a research program on auditor-client management negotiations in 1996. The purpose of this paper is to review the fifteen years of research on auditor client management negotiation including publishing, for the first time, the theoretical model that underlay their research program. I then review the sequence of published papers focusing on Gibbins, Salterio and their co-authors that led to the acceptance of the premise that the auditor co-created the financial statements and related disclosures with client management. I call this “exposing the phenomena” part of the paper. I then examine the experimental research carried out over the last decade and relate it to both the underlying theoretical model and the descriptive model of auditor client management negotiating, identifying where research has been carried out and where important matters, both descriptively and theoretically, have received less research interest than their importance may warrant. Finally, I provide some thoughts as to how archival researchers may join into this research stream by suggesting the repurposing audit report delay construct as a measure of probability that auditor-client management negotiations took place during the year-end audit. Furthermore, I suggest how this delay measure might be improved by using the newly popular text analysis comparison software that has recently come back in vogue in capital markets research. I call these sections “exploring the phenomena.” I conclude with a brief reminder about the practical significance of auditor-client management negotiations and I urge continued research on this important area; one that may threaten the future existence of audit firms more than any other.

Keywords: auditor, client, negotiation, model, audit delay, experimental, archival, theory

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30, D83, C78

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E., Fifteen Years in the Trenches: Auditor-Client Negotiations Exposed and Explored (November 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1966804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S Asthana
Interpretation of abnormal audit delays: Implications for earnings quality and firm value, Working paper Posted: 2010
A H Ashton
Experience and error frequency knowledge as potential determinants of audit expertise
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 218 - 239 Posted: 1991
R H Ashton
The predictive-ability criterion and user prediction models
The Accounting Review , volume 49 , p. 719 - 732 Posted: 1974
Load more
11 Citations
Jason M. Bergner , Sean A. Peffer , Robert J. Ramsay
Concession, Contention, and Accountability in Auditor-Client Negotiations
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 15 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Sanaz Aghazadeh , Andrew Collins , Chad M. Stefaniak
The Effects of Client Status and the Auditor’s Presentation of Multiple Estimation Alternatives on Client Financial Reporting Aggressiveness
29 Pages · Posted: 10 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 18 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 198
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lori Shefchik Bhaskar , Tracie McDonald Majors , Adam Vitalis
Are Auditor Negotiations Impaired During Depleting Times? The Importance of Client Interactions and Individual Attributes
51 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2019 · Last revised: 17 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 306
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Erik S. Boyle
How Do Auditors’ Use of Industry Norms Differentially Impact Management Evaluations of Audit Quality Under Principles-Based and Rules-Based Accounting Standards?
Boyle, Erik S. (2024). How Do Auditors’ Use of Industry Norms Differentially Impact Management Evaluations of Audit Quality Under Principles-Based and Rules-Based Accounting Standards? Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 54. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2024.100598, · 2 Pages · Posted: 7 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 175
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,504
RANK
190,354
11 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evidence About Auditor-Client Management Negotiation Concerning Client's Financial Reporting

By Michael Gibbins, Alan Webb, ...

Auditor Negotiations: An Examination of the Efficacy of Intervention Methods

By Ken Trotman, Arnold Wright, ...

A Review and Integration of Empirical Research on Materiality: Two Decades Later

By William F. Messier, Jr., Nonna Martinov-bennie, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies