Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Winnings from Poker and Other Gambling Activities in Canada

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 59, No. 4, p. 731, 2011

34 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2011

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Date Written: December 12, 2011

Abstract

In Canadian income tax law, winnings from gambling are taxable when they constitute “income from a source.” What is not clear is the basis for determining when, where, and how winnings from gambling activities can amount to “income from a source.” In light of recent decisions of the Tax Court of Canada, notably in Leblanc and Cohen, this article examines the court’s treatment of this issue through an analysis of the decisions in Canadian gambling cases dating from the early 1950s to the present.

Keywords: gambling, taxation, income, sources, reasonable expectation of profit, Canada

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin, The Taxation of Winnings from Poker and Other Gambling Activities in Canada (December 12, 2011). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 59, No. 4, p. 731, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1971415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,113
RANK
96,333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies