Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overview of Financial Ratios from 1900's Till Present Days

International Journal of Research in Commerce and Management, Vol. 1, No. 8, p. 126, December 2010

11 Pages Posted: 25 Dec 2011

Sanobar Siddiqui

University of Regina - Faculty of Business Administration; University of Toronto at Mississauga - Department of Management; University of Calgary; Prince Muhammad Bin Fahd University

Date Written: December 24, 2010

Abstract

Ratios have evolved substantially over a period of time. Ratios are an excellent analytical tool. They help to set standards of various industries. Financial Performance Analysis can be carried out by calculating various important ratios. There has been a various studies conducted on the basis of ratios but they have not been put in any chronological order. This research paper is an attempt to trace the changes that ratios have gone through time. The study traces the movement of financial ratios from the historical perspectives till the present day. The study also shows the usage of financial ratios that where conducted abroad in the Government Sponsored Enterprises as well as Public Sector Undertakings in India. The Research paper is limited to the government sector of India as well as abroad.

Keywords: Financial Ratio’s, Government Sponsored Enterprise, Public Sector Enterprise

Suggested Citation:

Siddiqui, Sanobar, An Overview of Financial Ratios from 1900's Till Present Days (December 24, 2010). International Journal of Research in Commerce and Management, Vol. 1, No. 8, p. 126, December 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1976705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Krishnan
The road beyond ratios: On how to interpret financial statements , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2002-11-11
A J Singh
Analysis of financial ratios commonly used by US lodging financial executives
Journal of Leisure Property , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 213 Posted: 2002-08
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failure, empirical research in accounting," selected studies
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1967
J H Bliss
Financial and operating ratios in management , p. 34 - 38 Posted: 1923
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
99,140
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies