Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Gaditanian Accounting Practice and the Management Methods of a Commercial Firm in Cadiz between XVIII and XIX Centuries

16 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2012

Amedeo Lepore

Seconda Università di Napoli

Date Written: January 5, 2012

Abstract

In the XVIII century, Cadiz, after having inherited from Seville the role of eminent Spanish commercial center - the main bridgehead between Europe and America -, entered into an age of remarkable prosperity (defined an authentic siglo de oro). This city, built at the extreme border of Spain, pointed out on the Atlantic shoreline and extended towards the most disparate broken off marine, has represented for a long period of time a center of world-wide traffics: it was a border between civilization and other worlds that through Cadiz entered in relation, creating a strong network of commercial relationships.

Along the characteristics of the Gaditanian commercial affirmation one must consider the peculiarity of the experience of the mercantile enterprises (their organization and management, with their administrative and book-keeping techniques) that became part of an economic environment based on the activities of intermediation and the initiatives of small capacity, insufficient capitalized, but highly rimunerative. In particular, the analysis of the book-keeping activities and management has helped to widen a fundamental aspect of the commercial experience of the age. This surveying has been carried out through estimating, in general line, the evolution of the Gaditanian accounting between the XVIII and the XIX centuries; as a concrete case it is carefully examined, a company that has operated in Cadiz from the half of the 1700's: the 'González de la Sierra' compañía.

Suggested Citation:

Lepore, Amedeo, The Gaditanian Accounting Practice and the Management Methods of a Commercial Firm in Cadiz between XVIII and XIX Centuries (January 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1980035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
505,351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies