Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Choice of Accounting Policy in Developing Countries: Case of the State of Kuwait (An Empirical Investigation of the Validity of the Positive Theory)

93 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2012

Mohamed Ahmed Shaheen

Ain Shams University - Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: January 11, 2012

Abstract

This paper concentrates on reviewing and examining some of the accounting methods that were developed by Watts and Zimmerman (1978) and others. The main purpose of this paper is to investigate and examine some factors which potentially influence Kuwaiti managers' Decisions related to the choices of accounting policies in relation to the companies which is listed in the Kuwait stock exchange.

Many factors have been suggested to affect the choice of accounting policy of U.S. managers (e.g., Watts and Zimmerman's (1986) positive accounting theory) such as the agency theory, compensation contracts and debt situation.

However, the general business characteristics of the U.S. environment differ, sometimes drastically, from those in developing countries (the case of the State of Kuwait). The main Factors which affecting the choice of accounting policies in the U.S. may not the same factors or have the same degree of effect on the choice of accounting policies in the State of Kuwait, at the same time, new factors may be identified in the Kuwaiti business environment, or the effect of the factors may be an increase or decrease from country to another country.

The paper introduces in-depth the ideas and researches related to positive accounting and its using in the decision of choice of accounting policy, in related to aim, methodology, assumptions, rules of choice, and key findings of the theory and its validity to the financial markets in the developing countries regarding to accounting choices, and clear insights into the determinants of accounting choice in the State of Kuwait.

The paper also shows that the empirical evidence and data gathered related to positive accounting theory in the U.S. and European countries may be totally different from the data which we arrived by performing an empirical investigation in the financial markets on developing countries "state of Kuwait", related to the determinants of accounting policy choice.

The paper will uses statistical methods such as regression analysis ( liner- step wise- backward analysis and multivariate regression analysis) by using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS), to examine the factors and determinants of accounting policy choices in a sample of (38) companies which is listed and working in the financial market in Kuwait.

The paper will depend on hypothetical-deductive style, by using the data gathered from the financial statements and depending on this data we make assumptions about manager behavior related to the decision of accounting policy choice and examining the alternative reasons for accounting choices based on critical assumption that mangers choose an accounting policy that enhance shareholder value.

Suggested Citation:

Shaheen, Mohamed Ahmed, The Choice of Accounting Policy in Developing Countries: Case of the State of Kuwait (An Empirical Investigation of the Validity of the Positive Theory) (January 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1983417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1983417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
R Leftwich
Accounting Information in Private Markets: Evidence from Private Lending Agreements. The Accounting Review , p. 11 - 24 Posted: 1983-01
H Schreuder
Positively Normative (Accounting) Theories in A. Hopwood and H. Schreuder (ads) , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 1984
A Sommer
Time for another Commission. Accounting Horizons , p. 34 - 46 Posted: 1990-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
989
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,192
RANK
53,195
4 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies