Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chasing Ghosts: On Writing Cultural Histories of Tax Law

UC Irvine Law Review, Forthcoming

78 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2012

Assaf Likhovski

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 16, 2010

Abstract

This article discusses the use of arguments about “culture” in two debates about the imposition, application and abolition of income tax law: A debate about the transplantation of British income taxation to British-ruled Palestine in the early twentieth century, and a debate about tax privacy in late eighteenth-century and early nineteenth-century Britain. In both cases, “culture,” or some specific aspect of it (notions of privacy) appeared in arguments made by opponents of the tax. However, it is difficult to decide whether the use of cultural arguments in these debates simply reflected some “reality” that existed prior to these debates, whether “culture” was actively constituted in these debates to further the specific interests of the participants, or whether the cultural arguments that appeared in the debates combined reflection and constitution in some determinable way. Using legal debates to learn something about culture, the article concludes, is sometimes problematic. The article therefore suggests an additional approach to the study of law and culture, one which focuses on the rhetorical level, seeking to map the ways in which arguments about “culture” (and related terms referring to the traditional and particular), appeared in tax law debates.

Keywords: tax, tax history, legal history, cultural history, historiography, tax law, comparative law, legal transplants, tax culture, tax morale, tax compliance, privacy

JEL Classification: N00, N13, N15, N45, E62, H24, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Likhovski, Assaf, Chasing Ghosts: On Writing Cultural Histories of Tax Law (April 16, 2010). UC Irvine Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1996605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A M See , Apelbom &amp; B , Palestine Braude , Income , Cases
Posted: 1945
Crossref
E W Klimowsky , Mas Hachnasa Be-Eretz , Yisrael
EICHELGRÜN, supra note 57; FELLMAN, supra note 76 Posted: 1941
S Moses
THE 1947 INCOME TAX AMENDMENTS Posted: 1947
S Moses , The Income , Ordinance , Palestine
Posted: 1942
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
390,908
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies