Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Forms and Accounting Conventions in Two 18th-Century Newfoundland Mercantile Concerns

22 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2012 Last revised: 11 Mar 2012

Allan Dwyer

Mount Royal University - Bissett School of Business

Date Written: February 3, 2012

Abstract

18th-century British merchants Benjamin Lester and John Slade were attracted to the Notre Dame Bay borderland region of northeastern Newfoundland by the abundance and variety of marketable commodities gracing the region. Their commercial rivalry played out within the context of a wider French-English competition in a borderland region where resident Beothuk natives and eventually migrant Irish labourers added to the complex social and economic mix. Lester and Slade adapted novel business systems for the procurement and shipment to European markets of the Bay’s salmon, seals, lumber, peltry and other resources, in addition to cod. They employed flexible bookkeeping and accounting conventions to track the values and volumes of the products that they traded with resident settler-planters. Similarly, they adapted enterprise forms according to the environmental, social/cultural and economic contingencies that arose during a period of great flux in the Atlantic world. Taken together, Lester’s commercial diaries and Slade’s extant ledgers represent a rare portrait of early-capitalist enterprise and entrepreneurship in a complex cultural and inter-imperial setting. Lester was a networked Atlantic merchant who aspired to join the ranks of economic and colonial elites. He was one of a large group of international “thinkers and actors” for whom the world consisted of nothing other than markets to satisfy. For his part, Slade was a focused, aggressive instrument of British imperial expansion and took advantage of the uncertain imperial and legal status of Notre Dame Bay to base himself there and intensively expand his supply trade. Once he had consolidated control over the majority of the clients there, Notre Dame Bay became for Slade the base for expansion into more distant commercial orbits further north, in Labrador. Both merchants left sizeable complexes of documents which explain in different ways the strategic priorities they pursued and the methods they adopted.

Keywords: accounting history, Atlantic world, 18th century, business history, Newfoundland, empires

JEL Classification: N31, N33, N41, N43, N71, N73

Suggested Citation:

Dwyer, Allan, Enterprise Forms and Accounting Conventions in Two 18th-Century Newfoundland Mercantile Concerns (February 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1999504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1999504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Admiralty
Admiralty and Ministry of Defence, Navy Department: Correspondence and Papers Series 1. Public Record Office, National Archives of the United Kingdom , p. 1749 - 1780
Public Record Office, National Archives of the United Kingdom
CO 194 , p. 1750 - 1772
Thomas Hancock
Hancock Papers, Baker Library Historical Collection , p. 1735 - 1761
Thomas Hancock
Boston Public Library, Department of Rare Books and Manuscripts
Ch.K.1.1 , p. 1782 - 1784
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
623,124
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Banking, Finance, Economy & Trade History eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies