Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptual Framework Coherence: Why and How

30 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012

David Sutton

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Date Written: December 2011

Abstract

This paper proposes a basis for progress in the development of a conceptual framework as a basis for regulating GPFR. The broad socio-economic environment is explored to determine the primary purpose of GPFR and its regulation and, from this, to establish the high-level properties of a conceptual framework suitable for that purpose. Amongst the conclusions reached are that the coherence of the conceptual framework is a prerequisite for GPFR development. Coherence offers terseness in the conceptual framework and, thereby, the ability to arbitrate competing claims on GPFR. Identification of the primary purpose of GPFR and its regulation leads necessarily to adopting a specific view of the users, objectives, and qualities of GPFR. This specificity is not arbitrary but, instead, prioritizes satisfaction of the central drivers of conceptual framework development rather than every possible purpose of every possible claimant. The satisfaction of every GPFR user can only ever be incomplete and, thus, the general purpose of financial reporting would not be achieved by adopting a stakeholder theoretical view of the purpose of regulating GPFR. Consistent with the purposive approach we conclude in favour of the investor primacy principle, the proprietorship view of accounting, and the current value variant, fair value.

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, David, Conceptual Framework Coherence: Why and How (December 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2028740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A Tentative Statement of Basic Accounting Theory
AAA Posted: 1936
How would research be effected by more emphasis on the stewardship role of accounting'. A panel presentation at the 78 th meeting of the AAA
AAA Posted: 1993
Statement by the Accounting Principles Board', AICPA Posted: 1962
Crossref
Basic Concepts and Accounting Principles Underlying Financial. Statements of Business Enterprises
APB Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,099
RANK
254,521
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies