Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Constitutionality of Tax Treaties

Yale Journal of International Law, Vol. 38, 2013

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 274

57 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2012 Last revised: 16 Aug 2013

Rebecca M. Kysar

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: May 3, 2013

Abstract

Taxes kindled the American Revolution. Revolt against collecting revenues without representation caused a tea party, propelling the colonies toward convening the First Continental Congress. Forgotten, though, is the role of taxes in shaping our fledgling nation immediately after the Revolution. Control over which governmental body could impose taxes inflamed the delegates to the Constitutional Convention. So important was the issue that the decision to originate revenue bills in the lower house of Congress constituted a cornerstone of the Great Compromise, thus birthing the representational structure of our country. This principle became embodied in the Constitution as the Origination Clause, ensuring that the power to tax would begin with the house that was directly elected and proportionate to the population.

Tax treaties (generally, bilateral instruments that mitigate or eliminate double taxation of income across jurisdictions) upset this carefully constructed intra-congressional balance. Because tax treaties are self-executing, meaning that they need no implementing legislation to take legal effect, the ratification of a tax treaty cuts the House of Representatives out of the process of legislating in the area of international taxation. This outcome, I argue, lies in derogation of the Origination Clause. Contrary to current practice, constitutional text, structure, history, and precedent, as well as normative considerations, mandate that tax treaties be implemented or approved through legislation passed by both houses of Congress.

Features of today’s tax legislative and treaty environment have made the democratic concerns underlying the Clause even more acute — in sharp contrast to those concerns motivating the exclusion of the House from the Article II treaty process, which have fallen away in modern times. Involvement of the House would legitimize the tax treaty process through enhanced democratic representation, increased deliberation, and the reduction of special interest deals. These remedies would also breathe life into the process, the paucity of which has enabled tax treaties’ circumvention of budgetary rules and has stymied discussion of purposes currently framed in century-old terms. Additionally the prescribed remedies allow the United States not only to honor its Constitution, but also to better uphold its obligations under international law by increasing the durability of its international commitments, creating more certainty for public and private actors. Finally, this analysis makes important contributions beyond the context of tax treaties by shedding light on the vexing questions of whether and when the Constitution limits the reach of treaties and when, as a constitutional matter, treaties can or cannot be self-executing.

Keywords: tax treaties, origination clause, self-executing, constitutional, international tax, treaty overrides

Suggested Citation:

Kysar, Rebecca M., On the Constitutionality of Tax Treaties (May 3, 2013). Yale Journal of International Law, Vol. 38, 2013, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 274, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2034904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Id. at 1912 (emphasis omitted) (quoting HENKIN, supra note 111, at 481 n.111); see also Curtis A. Bradley, The Treaty Power and American Federalism , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText
Mich L Rev
arguing that treaty makers have the power to conclude treaties on matters beyond Congress's enumerated powers, but such treaties could not be self-executing , volume 98 Posted: 2000
Carlos Manuel Vasquez , Missouri
Holland's Second Holding, 73 MO
L. REV , volume 939 Posted: 2008
John W Bricker
Constitutional Insurance for a Safe Treaty-Making Policy, 60 DICK
L. REV , volume 103 Posted: 1956
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
573
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,291
RANK
109,521
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies