Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Properties of Economic Events (Part I: A Network Perspective)

43 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2012 Last revised: 9 Feb 2014

K. R. Pertsemlidis

National Technical University of Athens (NTUA)

Date Written: July 23, 2012

Abstract

Accounting is studied in this paper as an evolving artificial language that enables economic agents to manipulate symbolically networks of economic events. Expenditures, expenses, revenues, and cash flows are classes of processes, called actions, which affect the reservoirs of agents’ economic interests, called accounts: physical assets, financial assets, financial liabilities, and earnings. While the independence of actions (causes) from accounts (effects) is widely adopted by accounting scholars, it is systematically violated in all accounting databases. While the structural coupling of physical actions (expenditures, expenses, and revenues) with financial actions (cash flows) is widely discussed by scholars, it remains obscured. Finally, this paper discloses the compositionality of accounting transactions, i.e., the hierarchical structure {flow, [action, (credited account, debited account)]}, which automates the syntactic/semantic control of accounting data and reduces auditing to only pragmatic relevance. These three properties constitute an accounting theory that explains all paradoxes of the current double-entry theory of financial statements and resolves the debates on the causes of the nonarticulation of accounting information that undermines the consensus on the Conceptual Framework. In Part II, this theory is mathematically formalized for making the recording, reporting, and econometrics of complex empirical facts efficient and effective.

Keywords: accounting properties, flow networks, binary syntax vs. double-entry layout, incidence and adjacency relations, FASB/IASB 3D conceptual framework vs. 4D frame of reference

JEL Classification: C60, C67, D23, E21, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pertsemlidis, Konstantinos R., The Accounting Properties of Economic Events (Part I: A Network Perspective) (July 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2041156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2041156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
P B Andersen , C Emmeche , N O Finnemann , Christiansen
Downward Causation Posted: 2000
J K Arrow
Methodological Individualism and Social Knowledge
The American Economic Review , volume 84 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 1994
W B Arthur
The Nature of Technology: What It Is and How It Evolves Posted: 2009
A Arya , J C Fellingham , J C Glover , D A Schroeder , G Strang
Inferring Transactions from Financial Statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,980
RANK
241,875
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies