Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ernest R. Breech: Award-Winning CPA and Corporate Financial Troubleshooter

Posted: 30 May 2012

Dale L. Flesher

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Date Written: May 29, 2012

Abstract

Accountants have risen to leadership positions in many large companies, but few have been successful in as many major corporations, and to such an extent, as was Ernest Robert Breech. His 1978 obituary stated that Breech had created “one of the greatest accounting careers in history” [Obituary, 1978]. Breech won the gold medal for achieving the highest score on the 1921 CPA Examination in Illinois. Following a short career as a bookkeeper with Fairbanks, Morse and Company, a manufacturer of scales, and other Chicago-area companies, he went to work for Yellow Cab Manufacturing Company. Yellow Cab became a part of General Motors Corporation (GM) where Breech apprenticed under the tutelage of F. Donaldson Brown, the inventor of the renowned Du Pont Formula and other financial breakthroughs. Breech became president of what was then a GM subsidiary, North American Aviation Corporation. He then moved to the presidency of Bendix Aviation. In 1946, Breech moved to Ford Motor Company, where he became chairman of the board, and where he remained until 1960. In 1961, he became chairman of the Board of Trans World Airlines (TWA). Thus, Breech enjoyed a career in the limelight — a career that led to him becoming known as the financial problem solver and troubleshooter for companies that needed to be revitalized. He was an intellectual catalyst who applied the lessons of accounting to modern industry.

Suggested Citation:

Flesher, Dale L. and Previts, Gary J. and Moehrle, Stephen R., Ernest R. Breech: Award-Winning CPA and Corporate Financial Troubleshooter (May 29, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2070175
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies