Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Significant Accounting Policies of Major Telecom Operators in India - A Comparative Study (June 2012)

30 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2012

John Thomas

XAVIER INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP

Date Written: June 11, 2012

Abstract

Presentation of Financial Statements has to conform to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or more commonly known as the Indian GAAP. The Indian GAAP is a set of promulgations and pronouncements issued by the Regulatory Authorities in India.

All the Regulatory Authorities are guided by the Indian Companies Act 1956, which among other things mandates that (a) books of Accounts shall be maintained on accrual basis (b) All registered companies shall comply with the Accounting standards as approved by the National Advisory Committee on Accounting Standards (NACAS), (c) companies shall present the statements in the format prescribed in Schedule VI of the Act (d) Depreciation rates prescribed under Schedule XIV of the Act shall be adopted etc.. Regulators in each area of business have further mandated modifications and formats for sectors such as Insurance and Banking. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has played a key role in the formulation of Accounting Standards (AS) in India, and has issued Guidance notes for areas not specifically covered by the Standards. The present paper aims at comparing the accounting policies of Major Telecommunications Operators in India. It is hoped that this will not only bring out the differences in the policies, but more importantly throw light on the basic assumptions that the operators have about the nature of the business they are in. It will also demonstrate that the strategy of accounting is in fact an effective tool in financial performance management. We would like to argue that 'the value system' as declared in the public statements of the business in fact a mirror to the culture of the organization. The policies followed within the company actualize at the transaction at the employee level, and affects the behavioral patterns and interrelationships both within and outside the company. Our confidence in this process is somewhat strengthened by the preliminary results of this study. The remarkable differences in performance levels of the four operators studied here are partly explained by the divergence in policies followed by them.

Keywords: accounting policy, accounting practices, organization value system, telecommunications accounting system, Indian accounting regulatory environment

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, John, Significant Accounting Policies of Major Telecom Operators in India - A Comparative Study (June 2012) (June 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2081695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2081695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,482
RANK
263,504
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies