Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Development in Indonesia: An Analysis Towards IFRS Full Adoption and It’s Shari’Ah Implication

Posted: 10 Jul 2012

Murniati Mukhlisin Mu Kim Ni

Tazkia University College of Islamic Economics

Date Written: July 9, 2012

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to analyse accounting development in Indonesia towards IFRS full adoption and its Shari’ah implication on accounting standard for Islamic business entity (PSAK 101-107).

Design/methodology/approach: The methodology of this study refers to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (PSAK) issued by The Indonesian Institute of Accountants as per 31 December 2011.

Findings: This study analysed steps towards IFRS Full Adoption from harmonization to convergence by comparing PSAK with IFRS and highlighted the differences. In addition, Shari’ah implications are elaborated when IFRS would replace the standards for Islamic business entity. The finding of this study is some local standards are harmonized and the rest are still under discussion. As for Islamic business entity, it stands on its own due to Shari’ah implications that may not be in favour with the Islamic business entities.

Practical implication: This paper provides experience in IFRS full adoption especially for countries that have dual accounting standards i.e. for conventional and Islamic entities.

Originality/value: No similar study has been conducted therefore it can become a key reference for future research.

Article type: General Review

Keywords: Indonesia, Accounting, Development, IFRS, Adoption, Islamic

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mu Kim Ni, Murniati Mukhlisin, Accounting Development in Indonesia: An Analysis Towards IFRS Full Adoption and It’s Shari’Ah Implication (July 9, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2102890
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,758
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies