Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profiling the Winners of the Public Oversight Board’s John J. Mccloy Award

13 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2012

Dale L. Flesher

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Andrew Sharp

Spring Hill College - Business & Management

Date Written: July 27, 2012

Abstract

The accounting Public Oversight Board (POB), an independent private sector body, was established in 1977, held its first meeting in 1978, and was terminated in 2002 at the creation of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). During the last twelve years of its history, the POB honored sixteen individuals with the John J. McCloy Award for Outstanding Contributions to Audit Excellence. These individuals included McCloy, the POB’s first chairman, and fifteen others who made great contributions to auditing in America during the later years of the twentieth century. This manuscript profiles McCloy and the individuals who were recipients of the McCloy Award. These recipients included some of the best known names in the accounting profession, plus a few who were not so well known. Some were not even accountants.

Keywords: John McCloy, McCloy Award, Accounting Public Oversight Board, POB

JEL Classification: B25, B30, G20, M40

Suggested Citation:

Flesher, Dale L. and Previts, Gary J. and Sharp, Andrew, Profiling the Winners of the Public Oversight Board’s John J. Mccloy Award (July 27, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2118856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2118856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Accounting Office's Accountability Advisory Panel, which provided guidance to the Comptroller General and other GAO executives
POB Annual Report Posted: 2001
During 1981, he rose to the level of managing partner of the firm's Florida practice, and then took on the position of national managing partner in 1983. Cook was elevated to chairman and chief executive officer in 1986; moreover, he directed the 1989 merger forming Deloitte & Touche. He retired in 1999 as chairman and CEO. His term as chairman of the AICPA occurred during the organization's centennial year (1987), and he had the opportunity to ride on the AICPA's float in the Rose Bowl Parade. Cook served as a member of the Auditing Standards Board, the Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Committee, and the Advisory Committee of the Securities Regulation Institute. A graduate of the University of Florida, Cook was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 1999
Cook's career at Deloitte, Haskins & Sells progressed from the rank of staff accountant in 1964 to manager in 1970 to partner by 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
799,009
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies