Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future Disclosures

Posted: 19 Apr 2000

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Abstract

In my short lifetime, just the last 60 years of the millennium now ending, Homo sapiens has harnessed atomic energy for peaceful and not so peaceful means, built computers that at first occupied whole buildings and then began shrinking them to miniscule proportions, landed on Earth?s moon and soon after began scouring the depths of outer space for evidence of other life forms, and launched the human genome project, in a voyage of self-discovery of a different kind. Knowledge is exploding in a chain reaction facilitated by new ways of organising and communicating information to others. Accounting inevitably will be bound up in this information revolution.

So what are the main drivers of financial accounting change as we enter the next millennium? Here are two: figuratively, our world is compressing rapidly in time and space; and knowledge per se is playing an increasing role in the world economy. What will they mean for our discipline as we know it today? They will mean two things, in particular: the role of periodic reports will be progressively usurped by continuous disclosures; and commercial history will become less relevant to financial markets than future prospects, or forward looking disclosures as they are often called.

JEL Classification: M41, M45, G12

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Philip R., Future Disclosures. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=212879
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies