Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research Agendas for the New Millennium: Celebrating Methodological Diversity

Posted: 6 Mar 2000

Jane Broadbent

University of London, Royal Holloway

Abstract

As the old century comes to an end and the new one begins, we can see a tendency to consider where we are as individuals, communities and nations. This is undertaken by both looking back at where we have come from and reflecting on where we might go. Whilst in some ways the turn of the century is a completely arbitrary boundary to use for such a purpose, the change seems to almost compel us to such reflection. In doing this we seek to make sense of what has passed and make plans for the future. In essence we seek to order our lives by labelling time and sorting our experiences. Historians demonstrate that the naming of time has always been commonplace, if also contested, perhaps as a way of making sense of the complexity of everyday life (Corfield 1996). As accountants of course we deal with issues of periodisation all the time. It forms the fundamental foundation of our calculations and is rarely cause for question. It is perhaps unsurprising that accountants are amongst those who are seeking to contemplate the state of their world as the new millennium approaches and this is one such attempt. The outcome of such reflections is manifest each year in the form of New Year Resolutions. The aim of this short paper is to argue the case for a New Millennium Resolution for the academic accounting community. That resolution is that we make active efforts to both encourage and value a broad range of approaches to research.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Broadbent, Jane, Research Agendas for the New Millennium: Celebrating Methodological Diversity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=212875
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies