Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting ? Beyond 2000

Pacific Accounting Review Millennium Edition, Vol 11, No 2, December 1999/January 2000

Posted: 16 Mar 2000

Wai Fong Chua

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Jane Baxter

University of New South Wales

Abstract

In this essay we consider the future of management accounting in the new millennium. We draw on the themes of post-industrialism to highlight the major discontinuities emerging in management accounting work. In particular, these discontinuities are discussed in the context of the following themes: the recession of the real; the rise of rival voices; the cyber-centred democracy; risk, trust and time-space; and the erosion of the bi-polar. We argue that management accounting will emerge as a paradoxical form of practice in the 21st century ? management accounting work will continue, but it may not be undertaken by professionals bearing the management accounting brand; reports will be produced for managing, but these reports will have an increasingly diverse authorship; financial representation will remain central to the internal reporting process, but there will be a growing need to represent activities and outcomes that do not have a material referent; management accounting will enter the ?business? of building trust, whilst enabling new forms of risk to emerge in more complex organisational and inter-organisational relationships. We conclude by arguing that postindustrialism creates significant opportunities for researchers in the 21st century.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Chua, Wai Fong and Baxter, Jane A., Management Accounting ? Beyond 2000. Pacific Accounting Review Millennium Edition, Vol 11, No 2, December 1999/January 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=212882
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,011
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies