Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Expertise as the Millennium Turns

Posted: 31 Mar 2000

Michael Gibbins

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Abstract

This essay focuses on accounting expertise and what is happening to it as the millennium turns, drawing some speculative conclusions about developments we might expect in the near future. The positions taken are drawn from my research and teaching experiences. As this is an essay, citations are not made in the text but a bibliography is appended. Those sources gave me ideas, but they are not responsible for where I have taken the ideas!

My focus is on what the accountant actually does in the world: the accountant's task and its surrounding environment, both of which define and shape expertise. Research and common sense make it clear that expertise is task-defined. Experts are good at some domain of knowledge and behaviour, and to provide that expertise they have structured memory and reasoning systems that are adapted to tasks they have experienced. Experience is key, whether by direct contact with the task or through stories, cases or instruction provided by other people. The necessary memory and reasoning knowledge structures are partly cognitive, in the expert's mind, but also may be external, such as in books, routines, decision aids, databases and authoritative standards. The sort of expertise that develops is conditioned by the tasks, by any support or other structures that come with them, and by incentives for good or poor task performance.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Gibbins, Michael, Accounting Expertise as the Millennium Turns. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=212918
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,939
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies