Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maaser Kesafim and the Development of Tax Law

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 153, 2007

61 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2012

Adam Chodorow

Arizona State University (ASU) - Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law

Date Written: March 15, 2007

Abstract

This article explores the development of the rules of Maaser Kesafim, the Jewish practice of non-agricultural tithing, and compares the income definition rules found in the halacha to those found in the Internal Revenue Code. The ancient rabbis and those who crafted the Federal tax rules stuggled with similar issues in deciding what should be included in income and what deductions should be allowed. Comparing the two regimes and how they address those issues reveals the extent to which culture and different enforcement mechanisms affect the development of the law.

Keywords: Jewish law, income tax, tithing, income definition, comparative law

JEL Classification: H20, H24, I30, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Chodorow, Adam, Maaser Kesafim and the Development of Tax Law (March 15, 2007). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 153, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Yaakov Shvut , false
MK at 77-8. Others who support transactional accounting for maaser kesafim include Rabbi Shlomo Laniado (d. 1793) (who reached the same conclusion by distinguishing the Talmudic partnership laws), Beth Dino Shel Shlomo
MK at 78-9 , volume 84
Yad See , Halevi
MK at 50 (in which Rabbi Yisrael Meir HaCohen (1838-1933) argues that six months is desirable , volume 18
E G See , Shlomo Rabbi , Laniado
Once maaser has been separated, it is dedicated to God and cannot be used for other purposes. See Beth Lechem Yehudi
Beth Dino Shel Shlomo, Yoreh De'ah , volume 167 , p. 78 - 87
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,266
RANK
330,157
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies