Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Farming and the Origins of State Capacity in England and France

GMU Working Paper in Economics No. 12-49

42 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2012 Last revised: 2 Aug 2013

Noel D. Johnson

George Mason University - Department of Economics; State University of New York (SUNY) - University at Buffalo; George Mason University - Mercatus Center

Mark Koyama

George Mason University - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 25, 2013

Abstract

How did modern and centralized fiscal institutions emerge? We develop a model that explains (i) why pre-industrial states relied on private individuals to collect taxes; (ii) why after 1600 both England and France moved from competitive methods for collecting revenues to allocating the right to collect taxes to a small group of financiers -- a intermediate institution that we call cabal tax farming -- and (iii) why this centralization led to investments in fiscal capacity and increased fiscal standardization. We provide detailed historical evidence that supports our prediction that rulers abandoned the competitive allocation of tax rights in favor of cabal tax farming in order to gain access to inside credit and that this transition was accompanied by investments in standardization. Finally (iv) we show why this intermediate institution proved to be self-undermining in England where it was quickly replaced by direct collection, but lasted in France until the French Revolution.

Keywords: State Capacity, Standardization, Tax Farming, France, England, Transaction Costs

JEL Classification: N23, N44, H11, K00, D02

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Noel D. and Johnson, Noel D. and Koyama, Mark, Tax Farming and the Origins of State Capacity in England and France (July 25, 2013). GMU Working Paper in Economics No. 12-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2130956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Why Nations Fail Posted: 2012
D W Allen
Purchase, patronage, and professions: Incentives and the evolution of public office in pre-modern Britain
Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics , volume 161 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 79 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D W Allen
The Institutional Revolution Posted: 2012
R Ashton
Revenue farming under the early Stuarts
The Economic History Review , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 310 - 322 Posted: 1956
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,529
RANK
261,451
23 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

George Mason University Department of Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Political Economy of Expulsion: The Regulation of Jewish Moneylending in Medieval England

By Mark Koyama

Legal Centralization and the Birth of the Secular State

By Noel D. Johnson and Mark Koyama

Jewish Persecutions and Weather Shocks: 1100-1800

By Warren Anderson, Noel D. Johnson, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies