Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues Facing New Zealand Standard Setters Going into the 21st Century

Posted: 31 Mar 2000

Liz Hickey

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of New Zela

Mark Westwood

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of New Zeal

Abstract

The paper provides comments on three significant issues facing New Zealand standard setters as the world enters the new millennium. These issues are (i) the funding of accounting standard setting; (ii) harmonising with standards of overseas jurisdictions; and (iii) meeting the information demands of financial report users. These comments are provided from the perspectives of insiders to the process. The comments outline current positions concerning these issues and focus on changes that are considered likely or considered warranted.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Hickey, Liz and Westwood, Mark, Issues Facing New Zealand Standard Setters Going into the 21st Century. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=213198
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies