Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Professional Accounting Body in the 21st Century: The Global Franchise

Posted: 21 Apr 2000

Sivakumar Velayutham

Sultan Qaboos University

Abstract

This paper seeks to identify and describe the shape of the professional accounting body in the new millennium. It is argued that the professional accounting body is at the brink of major changes at the turn of the century, due to its traditional role of self-regulation being threatened by other institutions within the accounting domain. The paper identifies the professional accounting body in the twenty-first century to be similar to that of a franchise. This, it is highlighted, would lead to the emergence of the global franchise.

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Velayutham, Sivakumar, The Professional Accounting Body in the 21st Century: The Global Franchise. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=213223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies