Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discourses Surrounding the Evolution of the IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework: What They Reveal about the 'Living Law' of Accounting

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 38, pp. 72–91, 2013

20 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2012 Last revised: 2 Jul 2017

Tim Murphy

Grupo de Investigación sobre el Derecho y la Justicia (GIDyJ)

Vincent O'Connell

University of Amsterdam Business School

Ciaran Ó Hogartaigh

University College Dublin (UCD) - College of Business and Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently published the final version of Chapter 1 of their joint Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (IASB/FASB, 2010). In this article, we focus on two of the key issues addressed in Chapter 1: stewardship and the definition of the primary user groups of financial statements. To address the discourses surrounding the evolution of Chapter 1, we introduce the concept of 'living law' from sociological jurisprudence into accounting scholarship. We first trace the role of stewardship/accountability in the evolution — from antiquity to the present day — of the living law of accounting. We then explore the origin, nature, and implications — from a living law perspective — of the moral traditions associated with stewardship/accountability. Our analysis suggests that stewardship has been, and continues to be, embedded in the living law of accounting — notwithstanding the formal pronouncements of standard setters. We also examine the social accounting project from a living law perspective and we suggest that such an analysis provides new possibilities for addressing core social accounting concerns. We conclude by arguing that, particularly in light of the far reaching impact of the neoliberal agenda, there is an urgent need for scholars in both contemporary 'social' and 'mainstream' accounting to recognize and build upon their shared living law heritage rooted in the age-old traditions of stewardship/accountability.

Keywords: IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework, living law, stewardship, accountability, decision-usefulness, social accounting, corporate social responsibility, sociological jurisprudence, legal pluralism, customary law, Eugen Ehrlich

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Tim and O'Connell, Vincent and Ó Hogartaigh, Ciaran, Discourses Surrounding the Evolution of the IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework: What They Reveal about the 'Living Law' of Accounting (2013). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 38, pp. 72–91, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2150583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
176 References
C Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Beyond current theorising
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Report of the study group on objectives of financial statements Posted: 1973
The measurement of corporate social performance Posted: 1977
A Statement of basic accounting theory Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Christoph Kuhner , Christoph Pelger
On the Relationship of Stewardship and Valuation — An Analytical Viewpoint
Abacus, Vol. 51, Issue 3, pp. 379-411, 2015 · 33 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 5
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stefano Cascino , Mark A. Clatworthy , Beatriz Garcia Osma , Joachim Gassen , Shahed Imam
The Usefulness of Financial Accounting Information: Evidence from the Field
The Accounting Review 96 (6): 73-102 · 62 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2017 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 2,756
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amanda Convery , Matthew Kaufman , Terry D. Warfield
Professional Jurisdiction, Organizational Boundaries, & the Scope of Standard Setting Authority
49 Pages · Posted: 2 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Charl de Villiers , John Dumay , Warren Maroun
Qualitative Accounting Research: Dispelling Myths and Developing a New Research Agenda
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 59, Issue 3, pp. 1459-1487, 2019 · 29 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
339,352
5 Citations
176 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies