Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Conclusion and Termination of the 'First' Double Taxation Treaty

British Tax Review, Vol. 3, 2012

U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 604

25 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2012

Sunita Jogarajan

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

In 1872, Great Britain and Switzerland (Canton of Vaud) concluded an agreement for the prevention of double taxation in respect of death duties. The Agreement holds a significant place in history as it is the first officially recorded agreement between countries which solely and directly addresses the issue of double taxation, albeit in a limited manner. Despite its prominence as the “first” double taxation agreement, little has been written about the Agreement. Given the current proliferation of bilateral treaties regarding double taxation, it is perhaps beneficial to consider why and how the “first” such treaty was concluded. This article traces the history of the Agreement to understand why these two particular parties were motivated to conclude such an agreement and how the final form of the Agreement was reached. The article then turns to the termination of the Agreement to understand the reasons why the Agreement was terminated and the considerations undertaken in that process. This examination of the life cycle of the Agreement presents an interesting snapshot of many of the issues which have arisen and continue to arise in the negotiation and conclusion of double taxation treaties.

Keywords: tax, double tax, treaty, Great Britian, Switzerland, Vaud

JEL Classification: H29, K00, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jogarajan, Sunita, The Conclusion and Termination of the 'First' Double Taxation Treaty (October 1, 2012). British Tax Review, Vol. 3, 2012, U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 604, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2154760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
; R Sinclair , R Kearney , Dalton
The Treaty on Treaties
64 AJIL , volume 75 , p. 541 - 542
This ground is now codified in Art.62 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, above fn
Sinclair
, volume 75 , p. 192 - 193
Crossref
Sinclair
See also, Kearney and Dalton, above fn , volume 75 , p. 542 - 543
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,012
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,194
RANK
51,500
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Melbourne Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies