Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Forgotten Henry Simons

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-39

48 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2012 Last revised: 5 Dec 2012

Daniel Shaviro

New York University School of Law

Date Written: November 27, 2012

Abstract

Surely just about everyone in the U.S. federal income tax field has heard of Henry Simons, if only for his famous definition of “personal income.” Few realize, however, that this proponent of “drastic progression” in a broad-based income tax was also a self-described libertarian who generally denounced government economic regulation and was arguably the chief architect of the pro-free market law and economics movement at the University of Chicago. This article provides a brief intellectual history of Simons’ work, aiming in particular to explain how and why he combined these seemingly disparate sets of beliefs, and what we may learn from them today.

Keywords: Henry Simons, income taxation, consumption taxation, libertarianism, classical liberalism

JEL Classification: B20, B31, H20, H24, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shaviro, Daniel, The Forgotten Henry Simons (November 27, 2012). NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2181719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2181719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Haig
Simons also notably called financial accounting's reliance on realization a "professional conspiracy against truth," albeit one that might be expedient "in a world of corruptible accountants and optimistic directors
-Simons income definition gives realization absolutely no place
Seligman was Simons' elder by thirty-eight years, and arguably had been the preeminent
Personal Simons , Income Taxation , Supra
See Id
Id. He starts by defining income as consumption, but "[b]efore long … income becomes something more familiar -savings being slipped in quite unceremoniously
85-88. Simons' critique of Seligman is remarkably sarcastic and dismissive. Seligman assumes what he needs to in order to supply the end result he wants , volume 87
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,423
RANK
201,537
5 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies