Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abusive Tax Practices: The 100-Year Onslaught on the Tax Code

17 Barry L. Rev. 179

42 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2012

Arthur Acevedo

University of Illinois Chicago

Date Written: Spring 2012

Abstract

In 2013, the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) will mark 100 years. Attacks on the tax policy generally, and on the Code specifically, have formed part of the income tax landscape since the enactment of the Code in 1913. For nearly 100 years, taxpayers have engaged in reasonable, and unreasonable challenges to Congress’ power to tax. Challenges range from legitimate interpretational issues, to quasi-legitimate tax shelter issues, to illegitimate tax protester issues. Taxpayer challenges are motivated by any number of reasons: a desire to equalize the perceived disparity of the income tax laws in relation to one’s particular tax position, a desire to pursue aggressive positions in the absence of explicit authority, or a misplaced belief in the illegitimacy of the Code. A number of factors combine to create an environment ripe for taxpayer challenges and for self-executing equalization by taxpayers - voluntary tax assessments, varying tax preferences, fluctuating tax policies, and ambiguous language. These factors influence a faction of taxpayers, tax protesters and aggressive tax participants, into behavior that is questionable and destructive to the tax policy goals of simplicity, fairness, efficiency and revenue sufficiency.

This paper explores the actions taken by tax protesters and aggressive tax planners, the response by Congress, and examines whether Congress has taken sufficient action to curb abusive taxpayer practices. The thesis of the paper is that Congress’ fainthearted responses to abusive taxpayer conduct is untimely, inefficient, and ineffective. Congress’ weak responses since the inception of the Code have contributed to a culture of income tax avoidance and a growing sense of exasperation by taxpayers with the income tax laws. The paper makes two proposals, one to address tax protesters, and the other to address unintended tax benefits as a result of aggressive tax planning resulting.

Keywords: Tax, Taxpayer, Abuse, Protester, Shelter, Avoidance, Evasion

JEL Classification: H10, H20, H22, H23, H26, H29, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Acevedo, Arthur, Abusive Tax Practices: The 100-Year Onslaught on the Tax Code (Spring 2012). 17 Barry L. Rev. 179, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Jerome R Hellerstein , Taxes
LOOPHOLES AND MORALS , volume 222 Posted: 1963
Richard J Kovach
Taxes, Loopholes and Morals Revisited: A 1963 Perspective on the Tax Gap
Whittier L , Rev
, volume 247 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Jonathan Weisman , ; J Wall St
Geithner's Tax History Muddles Confirmation Posted: 2009-01-14
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
390,908
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies