Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Objectives of Financial Reporting: A Historical Survey and Analysis

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

93 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2013

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

The aim of this article is to survey and analyze the succession of writings on the objectives of financial reporting during the past 90 years with a view towards contributing to an understanding of the origins and limitations of conceptual frameworks. The article begins with a review of the extensive literature, including the series of recommended and approved conceptual frameworks, in the United States and then proceeds to the literatures in Great Britain, Canada, and Australia, followed by a discussion of the framework issued by the IASC in 1989 and chapters 1 and 3 of the framework issued by the IASB/FASB in 2010. Summary remarks about Continental Europe conclude the survey. Attention is drawn to the criticisms of the objectives approach as well as to its possible perverse consequences for the remainder of the framework. In the course of the survey, there is an attempt to trace the evolution of stewardship and conservatism, or prudence, in the series of frameworks.

Keywords: objectives, financial statements, financial reporting, standard setting, conceptual frameworks, stewardship, conservatism, prudence

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The Objectives of Financial Reporting: A Historical Survey and Analysis (January 1, 2013). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2196476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
228 References
Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements and Supplements Posted: 1957
Accounting for special reserves arising out of the war
The Journal of Accountancy , volume 73 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 159 Posted: 1942-02
Basic concepts and accounting principles underlying financial statements of business enterprises. Statement of the Accounting Principles Board No Posted: 1970
Reporting changes in financial position. Opinion No. 19 Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,118
RANK
15,822
10 Citations
228 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies