Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Born in Italy: On the Origins of Management Accounting Concept (Родом из Италии: у истоков управленческого учета и анализа)

Finansy i Business, 2012, N 4, pp. 216-228 - Финансы и бизнес, 2012, № 4, с. 216-228

13 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2013 Last revised: 2 Jul 2013

Olga N. Volkova

Independant

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

In the article the most significant milestones in the development of accounting thought in Italy are considered in terms of the formation of the modern concept of management accounting (MA). The core content of the Italian accounting school authors since the early Renaissance to the mid-twentieth century is compared with modern interpretations of the subject area and methodology of MA. In the theories and attitudes of theorists and practitioners highlighted the key elements relevant to MA objectives, functions, approaches. It is shown that the holistic nature of Italian theories leads to the interpretation of accounting as the general managerial science.

В статье рассмотрены наиболее значимые вехи в развитии учетной мысли в Италии с точки зрения формирования современного концепта управленческого учета (УУ). Основное содержание взглядов представителей итальянских учетных школ с начала Возрождения до середины ХХ-го века сопоставляется с современными трактовками предметной области и методологии УУ. В теориях и взглядах теоретиков и практиков выделены основные элементы, соответствующие цели, функционалу, подходам УУ. Показано, что основные информационные области и методы УУ содержатся в учениях рассмотренных авторов, а их холистический характер приводит к трактовке учета в целом как управленческой науки.

Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.

Keywords: ассountancy, accounting, management accounting, Italy accounting, accounting history

JEL Classification: B15, M41, M83

Suggested Citation:

Volkova, Olga N., Born in Italy: On the Origins of Management Accounting Concept (Родом из Италии: у истоков управленческого учета и анализа) (2012). Finansy i Business, 2012, N 4, pp. 216-228 - Финансы и бизнес, 2012, № 4, с. 216-228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2196045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
О Н Вол Ко Ва
Бух гал тер ский учет Ита лии // Бух гал тер ский учет. 2000. № 15. Со ко лов Я. В. Бух гал тер ский учет: от ис то ков до на ших дней Posted: 1996
D Alexander , C Fiondella , M Maffei
The conservatism principle in the history of Italian accounting theory -the influences of domestic economy, legalism and regulation, accounting profession and standards setters. EUFIN
Ре жим до сту па Posted: 2010
V Antonelli , T Boyns , F Cerbioni
University of Cardiff Working Paper Series. Cardiff, 2005. Carmona S. The History of Management Accounting in France
Management Accounting Research , volume 2 Posted: 2007
M Cоndea , I M Cоndea , G Ciurariu , A Trifu , C Durdureanu
History of accountancy. A chronological approach
IPEDR Proceedings , volume 11 , p. 18 - 24 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
663,174
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies