Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing Past and Present: Impact of Accounting Internationalization on German Accounting Regulation

34 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2013 Last revised: 10 May 2015

Rolf Uwe Fülbier

University of Bayreuth

Malte Klein

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: January 10, 2014

Abstract

Financial accounting is rooted in national thoughts, traditions and institutional settings. As a consequence, accounting has developed heterogeneously over time to fulfill contracting purposes in divergent national environments. Against this background, we argue that the ongoing process of accounting internationalization and imposed harmonization entails the danger of deforming country-specific accounting systems, especially when the national envi-ronment for economic and contractual activities is not harmonized at all. In contrast to the more evolutionary integration and adjustment processes of the past where spillover effects have always existed, the rapidity of the current process and its coercive nature leads to increasing regulatory challenges. To support our argument and to substantiate the country-specific role of accounting for contracting purposes, we provide an in-depth case study of one country, Germany. We illustrate how the traditional German commercial law accounting system has historically evolved over centuries to meet specific contractual needs. Moreover, we show how the current process of accounting internalization has affected German accounting legislation and respective attempts to balance German accounting regulation’s past and present.

Keywords: Germany, German accounting, HGB, Europe, code law, legal system, socioeconomic-environment, institutional settings, SME, accounting history

JEL Classification: K22, M41, N00, N24, N44

Suggested Citation:

Fülbier, Rolf Uwe and Klein, Malte, Balancing Past and Present: Impact of Accounting Internationalization on German Accounting Regulation (January 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2200805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2200805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
Aaa , C A Botosan
2006. Financial accounting and reporting standards for private entities
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 194
Crossref
J Baetge
Working group on external financial reporting of the SchmalenbachGesellschaft -Deutsche Gesellschaft für Betriebswirtschaft). 1995. German accounting principles: An institutionalized framework
Accounting Horizons , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 92 - 99
W Ballwieser
A Global History of Accounting
Europe. Bingley Posted: 2010
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan
Incentive Contracting and Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 678 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Yeldar Rakishev
Development of Audit in Kazakhstan
19 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 116
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rolf Uwe Fülbier , Thorsten Sellhorn
Understanding and Improving the Language of Business – How Corporate Reporting Research Can Better Serve Business and Society
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 97, 2022 · 44 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,040
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,937
RANK
49,585
2 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies