Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting as a Technology of Government in the Portuguese Empire: The Development, Application and Enforcement of Accounting Rules During the Pombaline Era (1761-1777)

59 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2013

Delfina Gomes

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Garry D. Carnegie

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Lúcia Maria Portela de Lima Rodrigues

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: February 28, 2013

Abstract

This study of the interrelations of accounting and the State portrays accounting as a technology of government to effectively enact “practical action” (Snook, 2000: 186) at a distance in the Portuguese Empire. The study examines the development, application and enforcement of accounting rules under Portuguese imperialism in the “Pombaline Era” during the period 1761 to 1777. These rules, comprising the “1761 Law” and the later applicable accounting “Instructions,” were issued by the Royal Treasury, established in 1761, for application throughout the Portuguese Empire. Using the combination of Foucault’s concept of governmentality and Snook’s theory of “practical drift”, the study elucidates how the implementation and evaluation of accounting control systems permitted the Portuguese Government to exercise control at a distance, thereby mobilizing individuals to pursue its goals for the Empire. The measures taken to enforce conformity with the accounting rules are shown to have been targeted at deterring the phenomenon of practical drift and, therefore, were concerned with avoiding malfunctioning and potential chaos in colonial administration.

Keywords: Accounting rules, Central government, Portuguese Empire, Colonies, Technologies of government, Practical drift

JEL Classification: Accounting, Economic History

Suggested Citation:

Gomes, Delfina and Carnegie, Garry D. and Portela de Lima Rodrigues, Lúcia Maria, Accounting as a Technology of Government in the Portuguese Empire: The Development, Application and Enforcement of Accounting Rules During the Pombaline Era (1761-1777) (February 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2227297 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2227297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
The four General Control Offices were named as follows: 1) General Control Office of the Court and province of Estremadura, 2) General Control Office of Continent and Islands of Madeira and Azores, 3) General Control Office of West Africa, Maranhão and Baia, and 4) General Control Office of East Africa
Snook
) constructed a "theoretical matrix" in portraying dynamic representations of "organizational reality" (p. 220) and specifically labelled the perspective developed as a theory, known as the theory of practical drift , p. 179 - 201 Posted: 2000
Richardson
explored a different aspect of governmentality, beyond the discursive aspect of the term, and highlights the fact that governmentality can be expressed through networks of organizations Posted: 2009
Carter Mckinlay , Pezet , Clegg
) addressed how governmentality might be developed to study strategy (see also McKinlay & Pezet Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,366
RANK
584,242
1 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies