Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy Inside the Two Kingdoms

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1, 2013

58 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2013

Susan Pace Hamill

University of Alabama School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 22, 2013

Abstract

This article illustrates that my article, An Evaluation of Federal Tax Policy Based on Judeo-Christian Ethics, which states that tax policy consistent with the moral principles of Judeo-Christian ethics must raise an adequate level of revenues embracing the reasonable opportunity of all individuals to reach their potential under a moderately progressive model is consistent with Gregory Boyd’s interpretation of Two Kingdom Theory in his book The Myth of a Christian Nation. Boyd’s heavy criticism of Christians using Scripture to specifically answer questions and then voting to enforce those values on persons outside the church poses no conflicts with my arguments to persons inside the church. This article concludes that the moral obligation of Christians, especially those enjoying higher levels of income and wealth, to embrace the higher sacrifice required by the general moral guidelines of reasonable opportunity and moderate progressivity and to avoid being tempted to support flat models is consistent with the general themes of Boyd’s book. Although Boyd does not address tax policy he states that costly self-sacrifice must be at the center of kingdom of God responses to ambiguous kingdom of the world issues. Flat tax models not only demand far lower sacrifice from the wealthy as compared to the middle class but are also supported by objectivist ethics, a form of atheism with core values denying the existence of broad duties of self-sacrifice under any circumstances.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Judeo-Christian Ethics, Two Kingdom Theory, Objectivist Ethics

JEL Classification: H2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hamill, Susan Pace, Tax Policy Inside the Two Kingdoms (March 22, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
See Hamill
Crossref
Justice And Rendering , Unto Caesar
) (identifying charity as noble and important but separate from justice issues)
TAX POLICY AS A MORAL ISSUE UNDER JUDEO CHRISTIAN ETHICS Posted: 2004-02
See Hamill ; Citing , Carmen Denavas-Walt Et Al , U S Bureau , Income , Poverty , Health , Coverage , The , States
, p. 727 - 728 Posted: 2003
Independent , Urban Inst
THE NEW NONPROFIT ALMANAC & DESK REFERENCE Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,464
RANK
237,609
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies