Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming Federal Tax Litigation: An Agenda

Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 41 (Forthcoming)

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 631

103 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2013

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2013

Abstract

King Vertigorn, it is said, wished to build a castle to defend Britain against invaders. Each day, his mason raised and set the stones. Each night, however, the earth would rumble, bringing the work crashing to the ground. Vexed, Vertigorn asked Merlin for an explanation. Merlin’s mystical divination revealed that, in a cavern far below the surface, there resided two foes, a red dragon and a white dragon. In their perpetual struggle for dominance, first one dragon then the other would gain temporary ascendancy. Their jostling unsettled the ground, rendering all construction temporary.

In federal tax procedure, the red dragon and the white dragon are facilitation of revenue collection and fairness to taxpayers. Numerous times during the first century of the modern federal income tax, the courts have noted the centrality of the first value: “taxes are the life-blood of government, and their prompt and certain availability an imperious need.” But, were that the only value, we could return to brutal efficiency of the proscription system. We have refrained from doing so because our limited government traditions demand that citizens’ claims to due process under the law be taken seriously.

Thus, tax administration in the United States – before, during, and (no doubt) after the income tax’s first one hundred years – has involved and will involve the balancing of the revenue facilitation and fairness protection imperatives. Just as the power balance between the red and white dragons fluctuated, so have the relative weights accorded the two tax imperatives. During times of international or domestic crisis, we have looked to Government to save us from threats. This demands opening wider the spigot of fiscal flows, so the first tax value receives greater weight. During more placid times, menace recedes, causing the virtues of the second value to appear more attractive.

In short, the pendulum swings between emphasis on revenue maximization and taxpayer protection. This affects legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, and it implicates not just substantive rules of tax liability and tax rates but also styles of statutory interpretation and the rules and devices of tax procedure.

This article is about the procedural rules. Specifically, it considers the mechanisms by which disputes as to federal tax liabilities are resolved. The article identifies an agenda for reforming federal tax litigation. Fully developing the justifications for and the particulars of the proposed changes necessarily is the work of more than one article. Thus, this article sets the agenda, describing the core elements of the changes (and, in some cases, the reaffirmations) I propose. Subsequent articles will develop specific proposals in greater detail.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Reforming Federal Tax Litigation: An Agenda (April 2, 2013). Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 41 (Forthcoming), FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 631, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2243632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
E G Wing V
Comm'r, 81 T.C , volume 17 , p. 28 - 29 Posted: 1983
Steve R Johnson
An IRS Duty of Consistency: The Failure of Common Law Making and a Proposed Statutory Solution, 77 TENN
One area in which the analogy to general administrative law was made involved whether the IRS has a judicially enforceable duty to treat similarly situated taxpayers similarly. See , volume 563 Posted: 2010
Lawrence Zelenak
Should Courts Require the Internal Revenue Service to Be Consistent? Posted: 1985
E G Robinette V
Comm'r, 123 T.C , volume 85 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
436,942
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies