Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Knowledge and the Historical Emergence of Accounting Norms

52 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2013 Last revised: 17 Apr 2013

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

David A. Reppenhagen

UNCC - Turner School of Accountancy

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 11, 2013

Abstract

Accounting norms preceded generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but little is known about how and why these norms emerged. We hypothesize that private-sector institutions aimed at building a knowledge base among practicing accountants fostered accounting norms before formal standard-setters appeared in the 1930s. Establishing an association between knowledge-building institutions and accounting norms requires that we (1) identify the form and function of specific institutions that developed the professional knowledge base, (2) show that these institutions facilitated professional knowledge development, and (3) illustrate how knowledge acquisition, dissemination, and retention dynamically results in spontaneous emergence of homogeneous behavior indicative of a norm. We provide evidence of an association between knowledge-building institutions and accounting norms using a combination of historical analysis and simulation modeling techniques. While our focus is primarily historical, most of the institutions we investigate still operate today. Thus, our analysis clarifies how modern accounting is shaped by powerful forces that influence practices long before an accounting problem is considered by standard setters.

Keywords: knowledge sharing, norms, accounting profession, agent-based modeling

JEL Classification: C63, M40, N21, N22

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Madsen, Paul E. and Reppenhagen, David A. and Waymire, Gregory B., Professional Knowledge and the Historical Emergence of Accounting Norms (April 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2249844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2249844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
Aarao
First$Report$of$the$Association$of$American$Railway$Accounting$Officers$(Proceedings$of$ First$Annual$Meeting),!Available!online
! A Abbott
!The$System$of$Professions:$An$Essay$on$the$Division$of$Expert$Labor Posted: 1988
! C E Allen
!The!growth!of!accounting!instruction!since!1900.!The$Accounting$Review!2!(2):!150U 166 Posted: 1927
! L Argote , ! B Mcevily , ! R Reagans
!Managing!knowledge!in!organizations:!An!integrative! framework!and!review!of!emerging!themes
!Management$Science! , volume 49 , issue 4 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,676
RANK
243,680
5 Citations
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies