Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The History of the Decline and Fall of the American Accounting Profession

International Journal of Economics and Accounting, 2013, Vol. 4, Iss. 4, 365-388.

24 Pages Posted: 5 May 2013 Last revised: 26 Jul 2014

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: May 4, 2013

Abstract

"I don’t trust doctors, dentists or auto mechanics because I don’t know what they are doing. I don’t trust lawyers or CPAs because I do know what they are doing."

There have been many articles and books published on the development of accounting and the accounting profession in the U.S., both historically and sociologically. Some have critically examined actions taken by the AICPA, and others that have studied the effects of legislation on the accounting profession such as the Sixteenth Amendment or the creation of the PCAOB. Still others have observed the decline in the American accounting profession‘s status and image as a result of various failures such as Enron. This is the first to combine systematically a sociological analysis of the accounting profession in the U.S. with the historical development of the profession‘s power and status, and the subsequent loss of its power and status. A sociological analysis of the American accounting profession strongly suggests that it is no longer a profession as conceived by sociologists.

Keywords: American accounting profession, history, sociology of professions

JEL Classification: J44, M40

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The History of the Decline and Fall of the American Accounting Profession (May 4, 2013). International Journal of Economics and Accounting, 2013, Vol. 4, Iss. 4, 365-388., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2260594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Code of Professional Conduct
AICPA Posted: 1988-05
The National Accreditation Commission (NAC
AICPA Posted: 2006-05
Press release
AICPA Posted: 2008-05
Overview of the Accredited in Business Valuation (ABV) Credential
AICPA Posted: 2012-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
318,636
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies