Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Interest Allocation Rules: Effects and Policy

NBER Working Paper No. w4712

48 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2000 Last revised: 18 Nov 2022

Rosanne Altshuler

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Department of Economics

Jack Mintz

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: April 1994

Abstract

One of the important changes of the 1986 tax reform for U.S. multinationals is related to the allocation of interest expense. Prior to 1986, U.S. companies allocated domestic interest expense to the income of foreign affiliates on a non-consolidated basis according to the distribution of gross income or assets. After 1986, a U.S. multinational is required to allocate domestic interest expense on a consolidated basis according to the distribution of U.S. and foreign assets. We analyze the impact of the new interest allocation rules on the financial and investment decisions of U.S. multinationals using data from a survey of multinationals assembled by Price Waterhouse. We find that the allocation of interest expense increases the marginal cost of U.S. debt by about 38 percent for firms with excess foreign tax credits. Our empirical tests suggest that firms have altered the location of their borrowings in response to the new rules. We also find that the requirement to allocate interest expense has a significant impact on the effective tax rate faced by U.S. multinationals. For U.S. domestic investments, the interest allocation rules increase the U.S. effective rate from 17.6 percent to 21.9 percent. The rules also increase the effective tax rates on foreign investments made by U.S. firms.

Suggested Citation:

Altshuler, Rosanne and Mintz, Jack, U.S. Interest Allocation Rules: Effects and Policy (April 1994). NBER Working Paper No. w4712, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=227003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Rosanne Altshuler , T Scott Newlon , A Giovannini , ( 3 Hubbard , J Slemrod
The Effects of U.S. Tax Policy on the Income Repatriation Patterns of U.S. Multinational Corporations
Studies in International Taxation Posted: 1993
Joseph Andrus
Allocating Interest Expense for the Foreign Tax Credit
, volume 41 , issue 10 Posted: 1988
Alan J Auerbach
Taxation, Corporate Financial Policy and the Cost of Capital
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 21 , p. 905 - 940 Posted: 1983
Robin Boadway , Neil Bruce , Jack Mintz
Taxation, Inflation and the Effective Marginal Tax Rate in Canada
Canadian Journal ofEconomics , volume 17 , p. 62 - 79 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,832
RANK
897,570
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business

By James R. Hines Jr. and Eric M. Rice

Tax Policy and Foreign Direct Investment

By David G. Hartman

Altered States: Taxes and the Location of Foreign Direct Investment in America

By James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies