Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Supply Accounting Deficiencies in the Australian Army During the Second World War

Accounting History Review, 22(1), 73-91. doi: 10.1080/21552851.2012.653131

Posted: 22 Jun 2013

Frances Miley

Independent

Andrew Read

University of Canberra

Date Written: January 1, 2012

Abstract

The oral histories of veterans who served in the Australian Army during World War II are used to comment on the practical deficiencies of Army supply accounting procedures during that conflict from the perspective of those in the field. Although the Army thought these procedures were appropriate, the oral histories indicate that they had inadequate feedback loops and reporting mechanisms. This research highlights the critical importance of a military accounting system geared to enhancing war-fighting efficiency and effectiveness. It extends prior research on military accounting by introducing the end-user perspective. This historical research has contemporary relevance as studies continue to identify deficiencies in military accounting. The study highlights the potential consequences for a fighting force on active deployment when deficiencies in military accounting systems are not identified and remedied.

Keywords: accounting history, military accounting, Australian Army, World War II, supply accounting

Suggested Citation:

Miley, Frances and Read, Andrew, The Implications of Supply Accounting Deficiencies in the Australian Army During the Second World War (January 1, 2012). Accounting History Review, 22(1), 73-91. doi: 10.1080/21552851.2012.653131, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2283436
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies