Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Australian Accounting Academic in the 1950s: R. J. Chambers and Networks of Accounting Research

Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 54-76, 2014

Posted: 24 Jun 2013 Last revised: 27 Mar 2019

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Christopher J. Napier

University of London - Royal Holloway College - School of Management

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

This article examines the challenges faced by an Australian accounting academic, R. J. Chambers, in the 1950s, in breaking into the accounting research community; at that time almost entirely located in the United States and the United Kingdom. For academics outside the networks of accounting research publication in these countries, there were significant, but not insurmountable obstacles to conducting and publishing accounting research. We examine how these obstacles could be overcome, using the notion of “trials of strength” to trace the efforts of Chambers in wrestling with intellectual issues arising from post-war inflation, acquiring accounting literature from abroad, and publishing his endeavors.

Keywords: accounting history, accounting theory, research networks, actor-network theory, trials of strength, counter-narrative, R. J. Chambers

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel and Napier, Christopher John, The Australian Accounting Academic in the 1950s: R. J. Chambers and Networks of Accounting Research (June 1, 2013). Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 54-76, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2284436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2284436
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies