Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The American Accounting Association: Issues in Governance and Internal Control

International Journal of Critical Accounting, 5(3), 301-325, 2013

25 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2013 Last revised: 27 Jul 2014

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This article first presents a review and assessment of the American Accounting Association’s (AAA) governance and internal control. Second, it reports the results of a survey of members of the AAA that was conducted just prior to its annual meeting in August 2011 to solicit their opinions concerning the governance and internal control of the AAA. Thirty-seven and one-half percent of the respondents remained dissatisfied with the nomination, election and voting processes even after amendments to the bylaws were passed in spring 2011. Furthermore, although the AAA is a co-sponsor of the COSO framework of internal control, there is no indication that the AAA has adopted the COSO framework. Over 56% of the respondents believe the AAA should adopt COSO recommendations. The paper concludes that substantial reforms must be undertaken to improve the corporate governance and internal control functions of the AAA.

Keywords: American Accounting Association, AAA, governance, internal control, executive committee, COSO, board of directors

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The American Accounting Association: Issues in Governance and Internal Control (2013). International Journal of Critical Accounting, 5(3), 301-325, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2296282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Tone at the Top: How Management Can Prevent Fraud in the Workplace
ACFE Posted: 2011-08
Proposed Amendment Posted: 2010-08
Crossref
Accounting Education News Posted: 2010-08
AAA Statement of Responsibilities Posted: 2010-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,450
RANK
545,548
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies