Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Thoughts on Hamill, the Two Kingdoms, and the Ethics and Logic of Higher Tax Rates and Redistribution

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013

24 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2013

Petur O. Jonsson

Fayetteville State University

Date Written: July 29, 2013

Abstract

According to Susan Hamill, Judeo-Christian ethics call on us to raise marginal tax rates. Hamill bases this on the belief that higher taxes will yield more income redistribution to the poor and make them better off. Whether or not tax policy ought to be based on religious criteria is beyond the scope of this article. What the article argues instead is that Hamill has an imperfect understanding of both ethical reasoning and of the relationship between taxes and the welfare of the poor. The problems with her ethical reasoning start out with the canard that higher taxes represent simple self-sacrifice. This fallacy allows her to blithely disregard any ethical problems associated with the coercive nature of taxes. Hamill goes on to argue that there is no conflict between her call for higher taxation in the name of Christianity and Boyd’s call for Christians to focus on their own actions rather than on amassing power to coerce others. After considering Hamills ethical reasoning, this article points out that there is no clear positive relationship between higher tax rates and the welfare of the poor in the first place. For one thing, the actual allocation of government expenditures is influenced by a number of stakeholders and is not directly tied to current tax revenues. More importantly, higher tax rates are associated with a variety of disincentives for work and production. This may in turn slow down economic growth and thus reduce the future well-being of everyone, including the poor.

Keywords: Ethics, Morality, Transfers, Poverty Alleviation, Income Tax, Christianity, Susan Hamill

JEL Classification: A13, H24, I38, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Jonsson, Petur O., Some Thoughts on Hamill, the Two Kingdoms, and the Ethics and Logic of Higher Tax Rates and Redistribution (July 29, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2302911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2302911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Leo Abrami , Michel
The Ten Commandments as Positive Affirmations
Jewish Bible Quarterly , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 32 - 35 Posted: 2010
James Andreoni , A Payne
Do Government Grants to Private Charities Crowd Out Giving or FundRaising?
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 792 - 812 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Charles L Ballard
The Marginal Efficiency Cost of Redistribution
American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 5 , p. 1019 - 1033 Posted: 1988
Oriana Bandiera , Andrea Prat , Tommaso Valletti
Active and Passive Waste in Government Spending: Evidence from a Policy Experiment
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 4 , p. 1278 - 1308 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
467,335
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies