Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Wartime Origins of the Irish Corporation Tax

[2013] 2 Irish Journal of Legal Studies 15 (available online on the Journal website)

18 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2013 Last revised: 10 Oct 2019

Dominic de Cogan

University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 20, 2013

Abstract

The development of corporate taxation in Britain and Ireland followed in most respects an identical path between 1853 and 1922. By 1925, however, the Irish Free State and the United Kingdom had become radically different in approach, with Ireland taking the more recognisably modern path. This article traces the early history of this divergence and locates its origins in a peculiar mixture of doctrine, politics and accident.

Keywords: Ireland, Corporation Tax, Tax, UK, History

Suggested Citation:

de Cogan, Dominic, The Wartime Origins of the Irish Corporation Tax (August 20, 2013). [2013] 2 Irish Journal of Legal Studies 15 (available online on the Journal website), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2312953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
See Inland Revenue
Notes on the Finance Bill 1920, Notes on Clauses
But note that this position was changed substantially by the Super-tax apportionment provisions in s. 21 of the Finance Act Posted: 1922
Ibid
141D
Crossref
C T L
Notes on Inland Revenue points which may be raised Posted: 1921
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,281
RANK
588,428
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies