Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929

Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2013)

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 267

47 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2013 Last revised: 8 Sep 2013

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

At the turn of the twentieth century, the U.S. system of public finance underwent a dramatic transformation. The late-nineteenth-century regime of indirect, hidden, partisan, and regressive taxes was eclipsed in the early twentieth century by a direct, transparent, professionally administered, and progressive tax system. This book uncovers the contested roots and paradoxical consequences of this fundamental shift in American tax law and policy. It argues that the move toward a regime of direct and graduated taxation marked the emergence of a new fiscal polity – a new form of statecraft that was guided not simply by the functional need for greater revenue but by broader social concerns about economic justice, civic identity, bureaucratic capacity, and public power. Between the end of Reconstruction and the onset of the Great Depression, the intellectual, legal, and administrative foundations of the modern fiscal state first took shape. This book explains how and why this new fiscal polity came to be.

This paper contains the penultimate drafts of the introduction and conclusion of the author’s forthcoming book, Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2013).

Keywords: American legal history, tax policy, U.S. fiscal history

JEL Classification: A11, B15, H20, H25, H71, K34, N41

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929 (2013). Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2013), Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 267 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Lawrence Friedman
The Road to Munn: Eminent Domain and the Concept of Public Purpose in the State Courts" Perspectives in American History V (1971), 329-402, 400. Likewise, J. Willard Hurst noted that the government's "powers to tax and to spend" and to control public lands were the "two principal means to affect the directions of domestic investment" and hence create a favorable environment for the release of energy. Hurst, Law and the Conditions of Freedom in the
History of American Law , p. 61 - 63 Posted: 1956
The Definition of Income as a Problem of Fiscal Policy Posted: 1938
Louis Eisenstein
The Ideologies of Taxation Posted: 1961
J Walter , Harry Blum , Kalven
For more recent critiques from philosophers, see Liam Murphy and Thomas Nagel
The Myth of Ownership: Taxes and Justice Posted: 1963
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,031
RANK
202,182
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies