Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Luca Pacioli: The Father of Accounting

12 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2013 Last revised: 8 Mar 2018

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

In 1494, the first book on double-entry accounting was published by Luca Pacioli. Since Pacioli was a Franciscan friar, he might be referred to simply as Friar Luca. While Friar Luca is regarded as the "Father of Accounting," he did not invent the system. Instead, he simply described a method used by merchants in Venice during the Italian Renaissance period. His system included most of the accounting cycle as we know it today. The first accounting book actually was one of five sections in Pacioli's mathematics book, titled Summa de Arithmetica, Geometria, Proportioni et Proportionalita (Everything About Arithmetic, Geometry and Proportions). This section on accounting served as the world's only accounting textbook until well into the 16th century. Accounting practitioners in public accounting, industry, and not-for-profit organizations, as well as investors, lending institutions, business firms, and all other users for financial information are indebted to Luca Pacioli for his monumental role in the development of accounting.

Keywords: Accounting, Luca Pacioli, Friar Luca, Father of Accounting, Italian Renaissance

JEL Classification: A10, F3, M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy, Luca Pacioli: The Father of Accounting (2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2320658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Jenifer M Axtell , L M Smith , W Tervo
The Advent of Accounting in Business Governance: From Ancient Scribes to Modern Practitioners
International Journal of Business Governance and Ethics , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 46 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Brown
History of Accounts and Accountants Posted: 1968
G Brown , K Johnson
Paciolo on Accounting Posted: 1963
J B Geijsbeek
Ancient Double Entry Bookkeeping: Lucas Pacioli's Treatise Posted: 1914
Load more
2 Citations
Mark Hale , Ryan Huston , Murphy Smith
The Once and Future Accountant: Ethics and the Future Outlook of the Us Accounting Profession
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, Vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 426-440, 2005 · 15 Pages · Posted: 26 May 2006 · Downloads: 2,270
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fred Miller , Katherine Taken Smith , Murphy Smith
Development of and Student Reactions to an International Accounting GIS Case Problem
International Journal of Teaching and Case Studies, Forthcoming · 37 Pages · Posted: 14 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8,157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91,924
RANK
1,807
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies