Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brackets: A Historical Perspective

108:3 Northwestern Law Review 925 (2014)

30 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2013 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Tracey M. Roberts

Samford University, Cumberland School of Law

Date Written: September 25, 2013

Abstract

This Article surveys the history of the U.S. income tax system from 1913 to the present, examining changes in the structure of the graduated rates system over the past 100 years, using inflation-adjusted dollars. By connecting these changes to key events in the history of the United States, the article contextualizes modifications Congress has made to the income tax over time as well as the current debate surrounding several proposals for reform. First, the Article demonstrates that the rate structure has become more flat (with lower rates and fewer brackets than in the past), compressed (with less graduation, steeper jumps between brackets, and less penetration of the rate schedule into the income strata), and complex (with the proliferation of tax expenditures) over time. Second, the Article reveals that the structures that would result from several tax reform proposals being discussed in the popular media resemble historical rates and brackets. Because these proposals for tax reform have analogs in earlier versions of the income tax, the article argues that analysis of economic data from prior periods may help inform tax policy and identifies an agenda for future research.

Keywords: Income Tax, Tax, History, Flat Tax, Progressivity, Millionaire Surtax, Empirical Research

JEL Classification: H24, N42

Suggested Citation:

Roberts, Tracey, Brackets: A Historical Perspective (September 25, 2013). 108:3 Northwestern Law Review 925 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2331050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Thomas Piketty , Emmanuel Saez
(data updated to 2012 dollars may be found at Tables and Figures Updated to 2012 in Excel format
Income Inequality in the United States , volume 1 , p. 8 - 9 Posted: 1913
Id ; Mr , Ikard
Table H-5, Race and Hispanic Origin of Householder-Households by Median and Mean Income: 1967 to
(identifying the mean household income as $71,274 and the median household income in the U.S. as $51 , volume 568 Posted: 1986
Id
Posted: 2009
U S See
Federal Income Tax Rates History, supra note 1
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,420
RANK
189,166
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies