Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Arbitrary are International Accounting Classifications? Lessons from Centuries of Classifying in Many Disciplines, and Experiments with IFRS Data

Accounting, Organizations and Society, 38(8), 2013, 573-595

65 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2013 Last revised: 28 Jan 2014

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: August 24, 2013

Abstract

The process of classification is central to the daily task of doctors and librarians; and it is the foundation of study and research in chemistry and biology. Double-entry bookkeeping and the preparation of financial statements are classification activities of accounting practice. Classifying national accounting systems has long been an aspect of accounting research. This paper seeks to extract lessons for accounting researchers from anthropology, biology, chemistry, cosmology and medicine. In particular, we examine how the classifiers themselves and the characteristics that they choose can affect classification. We observe that objectivity is neither possible nor desirable in classification. Despite the arbitrariness, some classifications can be more reasonable or more useful than others. For previous accounting classifications, we analyze the classifiers, the scope, the characteristics used, the data and the classification techniques. We report various problems. We then empirically investigate the sensitivity of classifications to such issues as the characteristics chosen, and the countries and sectors included. For this, we hand pick data on the practices of large listed companies from 12 jurisdictions relating to 14 accounting topics under International Financial Reporting Standards. We show how different researchers could produce different classifications, particularly depending on which accounting topics are used to represent the countries.

Keywords: classification, international accounting, meta-analysis, accounting choice, IFRS, sensitivity

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Stadler, Christian, How Arbitrary are International Accounting Classifications? Lessons from Centuries of Classifying in Many Disciplines, and Experiments with IFRS Data (August 24, 2013). Accounting, Organizations and Society, 38(8), 2013, 573-595, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
American Accounting Association 1975-1976 Committee on International Accounting Operations and Education
The Accounting Review , volume 52 , p. 65 - 132 Posted: 1977
Accounting trends and techniques
AICPA Posted: 2010
H Aldersley-Williams
Periodic tales: the curious lives of the elements Posted: 2011
D Alexander , S Archer
On the myth of "Anglo-Saxon" financial accounting
International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 557 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Elena-Mirela Nichita
Intangible Assets – Insights From a Literature Review
Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 224-261, 2019 · 38 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 1,930
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
292,525
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies