Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Politics of Accounting Standard-Setting: A Review of Empirical Research

54 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2013 Last revised: 20 Oct 2013

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Brett Lombardi

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting & Business Information Systems

Douglas J. Skinner

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 17, 2013

Abstract

We provide an overview of the empirical literature on the politics of accounting standard setting, focusing on the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Although it is clear from casual observation that politics sometimes plays a first-order role in the determination of accounting standards, we argue that more can be done to improve our understanding of this important topic. Based on our review, we outline what we see to be a number of potentially fruitful directions for future research.

Keywords: Accounting standards, FASB, politics, lobbying, economic consequences

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gipper, Brandon and Lombardi, Brett J. and Lombardi, Brett J. and Skinner, Douglas J., The Politics of Accounting Standard-Setting: A Review of Empirical Research (October 17, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2342001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2342001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Firms' voluntary recognition of stockbased compensation expense
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , p. 123 - 160 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Allen
Agenda setting at the FASB: Evidence from the role of the FASAC. Working paper Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
A Allen , K Ramanna , S Rowchowdhury
The auditing oligopoly and .lobbying on accounting standards. Working paper, Harvard Business School Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,078
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,206
RANK
17,537
21 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies