Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expert Systems

Wiley Encyclopedia of Computer Science and Engineering, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2013

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: November 3, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates the notion of an "expert system," including key characteristics, such as the use of rules and uncertainty representations. The paper also reviews some of the issues associated with the development of expert systems, such as knowledge acquisition, verification and validation of expert systems. A wide range of expert system applications are reviewed to illustrate the potential application base of expert systems. In addition, the paper provides some historical background associated with the development of the concept of expert systems.

Keywords: expert systems, knowledge-based systems, expertise, knowledge acquisition

JEL Classification: C88, l86

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Expert Systems (November 3, 2013). Wiley Encyclopedia of Computer Science and Engineering, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2349274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
E Shortliffe
Medical Expert Systems, Knowledge Tools for Physicians
The Western Journal of Medicine , p. 830 - 839 Posted: 1986-12
F Rose
An 'Electronic' Clone of a Skilled Engineer is very hard to create
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 1988-08-12
D Bobrow , S Mittal , M Stefik
Expert Systems: Perils and Promise
Communications of the ACM , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 880 - 894 Posted: 1986-09
Crossref
The New Rocket Science
Business Week Posted: 1992-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,614
RANK
209,542
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies