Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

109 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2000

Douglas A. Shackelford

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2000

Abstract

This paper traces the development of archival, microeconomic-based, empirical income tax research in accounting over the last fifteen years. The paper details three major areas of research: (i) the coordination of tax and non-tax factors, (ii) the effects of taxes on asset prices and (iii) the taxation of multijurisdictional (international and interstate) commerce. Methodological concerns of particular interest to this field also are discussed. The paper concludes with a discussion of possible directions for future research.

JEL Classification: G12, K34, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Shackelford, Douglas A. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Empirical Tax Research in Accounting (December 2000). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=235796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.235796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
202 References
R Adiel
Reinsurance and the management of regulatory ratios and taxes in the property-casualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 207 - 240 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Alford , P Berger
The role of taxes, financial reporting, and other market imperfections in structuring divisive reorganizations. Working paper Posted: 1998
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Auerbach , K Hassett
On the marginal source of investment funds
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,792
ABSTRACT VIEWS
37,670
RANK
6,675
60 Citations
202 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

The Persistence and Pricing of Earnings, Accruals, and Cash Flows When Firms Have Large Book-Tax Differences

By Michelle Hanlon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies