Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italian Accounting of the Late 19th Century and the Early 20th Century on the Epistemological Problem of Connections with Related Sciences

Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, August 2012, Vol. 8, No. 8, 1095-1125

Posted: 30 Dec 2013

Enrico Gonnella

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Talarico Lucia

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper takes into consideration the doctrinal positions that are taken by Italian accounting in the period between the 19th and the 20th century, and concerns the nature of relationships between accounting and its most similar sciences, particularly economics. Over those years, the scholars in that field started to show a peculiar epistemological sensitivity. Spurred by the philosophical debate which was raised by positivism and particularly by Comte’s and Spencer’s studies, researchers wondered whether the most appropriate place for accounting was in the large field of social sciences. Hence, two different epistemological approaches arose with one succeeding the other in time. Initially, scholars accepted the idea that accounting somehow depended on its related sciences, which included economics. They deemed it convenient to use, also for their own purposes, principles drawn from contiguous doctrines that had already been scientifically recognized, such as economics. That was how Italian accounting happened to be, even though temporarily, in a position of “scientific subjection” with respect to the mentioned doctrines. At the second stage, due to the awareness of the specific subject and the method of investigation, as well as the purposes, Italian accounting claimed its own scientific autonomy, so scholars went back to the first phase and considered it necessary to develop internal principles and rules as a function of its peculiar needs. By doing so, scholars mapped out a route that would deeply mark the future of the discipline by making it fully independent on other fields of knowledge in a sort of emancipation process. The paper will not only describe the two theoretical positions which are summarized above, but will also adopt an interpretative approach to trace their possible causes and to grasp their effects on the development of the discipline, particularly with regards to the theories of value which is adopted by the Italian accounting over the analyzed period. In the authors’ opinion, the attention paid by the most authoritative Italian accounting scholars to the epistemological theme of relationships between accounting and its similar sciences can be explained by at least two different causes: The influence which is exercised by the philosophical studies and the aspiration of accounting for scientific and academic recognition.

Keywords: accounting history, epistemology, relationships between sciences, Italy

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gonnella, Enrico and Lucia, Talarico, Italian Accounting of the Late 19th Century and the Early 20th Century on the Epistemological Problem of Connections with Related Sciences (August 1, 2012). Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, August 2012, Vol. 8, No. 8, 1095-1125 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2372580
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
871
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies