Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Negotiation and Drafting of the First Australia-Canada Taxation Treaty (1957)

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 4, p. 915, 2013

Posted: 2 Jan 2014

C. John Taylor

University of New South Wales - School of Business Law and Taxation

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The 1957 Australia-Canada taxation treaty was the third comprehensive taxation treaty entered into by Australia and the 11th entered into by Canada. Neither the negotiation and drafting of the treaty nor its relevance for understanding the development of the treaty practice and policy of each country has previously been the subject of published research. This article is based on archival sources located in the National Archives of Australia and in Library and Archives Canada.

The impetus for the treaty came from Canada following submissions by Canadian businesses (initially shipping companies and subsequently Ford and Massey-Harris-Ferguson), which, after the signing of the 1946 Australia-UK taxation treaty and the 1953 Australia-US taxation treaty, regarded themselves as being at a competitive disadvantage as compared with UK or US businesses investing in or doing business with Australia. The active lobbying by Canadian business reflected the high levels of source taxation in Australia and Canada's then net capital export position in relation to Australia. Australia was initially reluctant to enter into further taxation treaties; but in 1953, awareness of the direct benefit that could flow to foreign investors through treaties, coupled with a desire not to offend Canada and notions of Commonwealth solidarity, meant that Australia was then willing to enter into a treaty with Canada on similar terms to those in the 1953 Australia-US treaty.

Remarkably, following face-to-face negotiations in 1953, officials continued to negotiate via correspondence until 1957, even though the only technical issue of substantial disagreement between them concerned Australian undistributed profits tax. Canadian Department of Finance officials may have been concerned about a possible adverse US reaction if Canada conceded more to Australia on undistributed profits tax than it had to the United States in the 1946 Canada-US treaty. Once the technical issues had been resolved, following a concession by Canada on undistributed profits tax, the Australian Treasury reignited its general opposition to taxation treaties in response to adverse public reaction to high levels of dividend remittances by the Australian subsidiary of General Motors to its US parent. In both countries, the departments of External Affairs and relevant ministers were more concerned with promoting Commonwealth solidarity and direct investment between the two countries than with technical issues. Ultimately, this pragmatic and foreign-policy-oriented perspective prevailed, leading to the signing of the treaty in 1957.

The treaty entered into was similar to earlier Canadian treaties but with variations resulting from Australia's desire to protect the operation of specific features of its domestic law. Some of those distinctive features continue in Australian treaty practice to this day. The impression gained from the negotiations is that, in this period, Canada was prepared to agree to unusual features in some treaties provided that they did not conflict with key features that Canada considered essential to all its taxation treaties.

Keywords: Treaties; Australia; Canada; negotiations; history

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, C. John, The Negotiation and Drafting of the First Australia-Canada Taxation Treaty (1957) (2013). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 4, p. 915, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374220
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies