Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Education at the Millennium

As published in Issues in Accounting Education, Vol 15, No 2, May 2000

Posted: 12 Sep 2000

Michael W. Maher

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Abstract

This article examines the "journey" of management accounting education over the past 50 years, evaluates the state of the field today, and presents my personal observations about teaching approaches. I observe that we have seen a substantial addition of management accounting courses to business school curricula, and changes in what was conventionally known as "cost accounting" courses, over the past 50 years. In recent years, innovative topics have come primarily from practice and from empirical research about practice. The introduction of these innovations into courses, and the expansion of management accounting in business school curricula, has resulted in a field that is alive and well in academia. The future demand for management accounting courses may be in some jeopardy, however, because students might not see good job opportunities in management accounting. Management accounting educators must address these problems to avoid enrollment declines in management accounting. The way we teach management accounting can increase the value of our students and mitigate possible enrollment declines. By focusing on problem-solving skills and the organizational context of decisions, rather than the "facts" of management accounting methods, we can educate students to be creative problem solvers who add substantial value to their organizations.

JEL Classification: M40, M46, A22, A23

Suggested Citation:

Maher, Michael W., Management Accounting Education at the Millennium. As published in Issues in Accounting Education, Vol 15, No 2, May 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=238522
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,038
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies