Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Education: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow

Posted: 23 Aug 2000

Germain B. Boer

Vanderbilt University - Accounting

Abstract

For the past 35 years I have been teaching management accounting to undergraduate students, graduate students, and M.B.A. students. My approach to the topic has evolved over the years as my understanding of management accounting and of management decision making has expanded. The real world of business has always fascinated me, and I take every opportunity I can to visit companies to view their operations and to talk with managers about the problems and issues they face. Management accountants at companies like Caterpillar, Inc., Nortel, Dresser (now a division of Halliburton Co.), and numerous other companies have helped me to learn about the ways that management accounting works in organizations. The more I learn about the practice of management accounting the more dissatisfied I become with what I teach in my courses, so my class material is constantly evolving to accommodate my ever-changing understanding of management accounting. As my knowledge of management accounting deepens I find myself discussing fewer techniques and procedures and more policy issues. This paper allows me to share with the readers of Issues in Accounting Education some of the things I have learned, and I appreciate the opportunity the editor, David Stout, has provided me to expose my ideas to the readers of this journal. The view I offer on the past, the present and the future of management accounting may annoy some, delight others, and bore several, but hopefully they will cause the readers to think about how we will train the next generation of management accountants.

JEL Classification: M40, M46, A22, A23

Suggested Citation:

Boer, Germain B., Management Accounting Education: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=238518
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,969
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies