Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Determines Time Spent in Peer Reviews? – Evidence from The Accounting Review

61 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2014

Marcus Bravidor

University of Freiburg; Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf

Date Written: November 30, 2013

Abstract

The existing empirical literature on the peer review process in general and in accounting in particular has primarily focused on the fairness of the process and reasons for rejections of submitted papers. There is little evidence on the factors which might influence the overall timeliness of peer review. Based on a sample of hand-collected data from 477 articles published in The Accounting Review (TAR) between 1997 and 2009 I investigate the effect of informal feedback, article- and author-specific factors as well as fairness indicators on the duration of the peer review process. The results of my base model suggest that peer review in TAR is not object to external influence. Noticeably, articles which get highly cited after publication, pass the process significantly faster, indicating a certain effectiveness of the process. Collaboration between authors is a more important factor than informal feedback from colleagues, seminars, conferences, etc. In a second analysis I additionally investigate the effect of fairness indicators based on a subsample of articles for which the (accepting) editor is known. If institutional bonds between editor and author(s) exist, the time spent in peer review apparently decreases. This result should be interpreted with caution, as it could simply reflect a self-selection of high quality faculty. The results are robust to different definitions of author-specific attributes and the inclusion of submission year-, method- and topic-fixed effects.

Keywords: peer review duration, acceptance-submission lag, academic journals, acknowledgements, informal feedback, fairness

JEL Classification: M41, N01

Suggested Citation:

Bravidor, Marcus, What Determines Time Spent in Peer Reviews? – Evidence from The Accounting Review (November 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2387395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2387395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
*
22) (-2.19) EdDepenNarrow -2.682 * -2.606 * -2.806 * -2.608 * (-1.9) (-1.83) (-1.96) (-1.83) /Modelling: Articles which discuss the definitions of and relationships among concepts
• Case
Field Study: Articles which utilize the case study method or conduct field study research through various methodologies
Crossref
Articles which involve the testing of a statistical hypothesis to answer the research question (s); a data base is normally used
Articles which utilize an experimental design to address the research question(s)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,169
RANK
303,670
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies