Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Genealogy of Myths About the Rationality of Accounting in the West and in the East

33 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Keith Hoskin

Warwick Business School

Debin Ma

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economic History

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 27, 2013

Abstract

Goody (1996: The East in the West) contests the arguments of Weber and others that Western accounting developments — and in particular double-entry bookkeeping ('DEB') which first appeared in Italy around the end of the 13th century AD — provided a new calculative rationality that drove the economic transformations of early capitalism. Recently Gleeson-White’s (2012) best selling Double Entry: How the Merchants of Venice Created Modern Finance attempts to re-establish the myth while a further variation on this theme appears in Padgett and Powell’s (2012) The Emergence of Organizations and Markets. Here we explore how arguments relating to the form of DEB are frequently confused with arguments about its content — and how historically differing modes of its actual use have been treated as 'the same' — and why the various claims for its crucial significance in focusing economic rationality continually re-emerge. We suggest that the wider issues can now more fruitfully be debated in the broader context of parallels and contrasts with the development of the economy in late Imperial China and of its bookkeeping and accounting systems. We explore how the myth of an indigenous 'Chinese double-entry bookkeeping' ('CDEB') appears to have emerged as a counterweight to the power of the perceived rationality of Western DEB.

Keywords: Double-entry bookkeeping, China, myths, economic rationality

Suggested Citation:

Hoskin, Keith and Ma, Debin and Macve, Richard H., A Genealogy of Myths About the Rationality of Accounting in the West and in the East (November 27, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
P K Auyeung , L Fu , Z Liu
Double-Entry Bookkeeping in Early-Twentieth-Century China
Business History Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 96 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Brandt , D Ma , T G Rawski
From Divergence to Convergence: Re-evaluating the History Behind China's Economic Boom
LSE Economic History Working Paper , volume 158 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Bromwich , R Macve , S Sunder
Hicksian income in the conceptual framework
Abacus , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 348 - 376 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A D Chandler
The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,450
RANK
228,448
5 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies