Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value vs Conservatism? Aspects of the History of Accounting, Auditing, Business and Finance from Ancient Mesopotamia to Modern China

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 20, 2013

Abstract

To help understand modern financial accounting theory ('FAT') and its role in the development of finance and business, I consider two current mainstream histories of its development and offer a third alternative. The standard setters’ version is that increasingly FAT is rationally derived from a basically coherent conceptual framework, currently focused on 'comprehensive income' as measured by 'changes in assets and liabilities', in turn preferably measured at fair values. However, examination here of several recent FASB/IASB standards and exposure drafts shows that instead they unavoidably bear the marks of the history of a variety of now embedded practices that have shaped thinking about, and vested interests in, what is 'good accounting'. By contrast, some recent academic versions of history focus on how 'conservative', historical-cost based accounting principles have rationally evolved to provide an anchor on which to base appraisal of firms’ and managers’ performance, prospects and risks, and supply the kind of information that investors and other parties in the capital markets need to help overcome the information asymmetry between them and corporate managers. After analyzing the limitations of this second type of history, I argue that even a brief genealogical examination of the conditions of possibility that have led to the growth and changes in accounting and auditing practices and discourses, and in the power-knowledge relations that they have engendered at different stages over the millennia of recorded history, suggests that their power has always been more that of 'institutional rationalized myth'. The twin rational myths of the objectivity of accounting and of auditing together provide the structure that offers the comfort necessary to enable the various agents in the modern, increasingly global, economy to undertake and finance the risks of acting 'at a distance' and across time. This modern, grammatocentric accountability increasingly extends throughout the institutions that coordinate modern societies, in the rising East as well as in the established West. Exploring how much of FAT is rational and reflects some objective 'economic reality' and how much is myth and is subjectively, socially constructed; and, again, how much might be improved and how much is intractable, are the major questions now for accounting, auditing and finance policy-making and research. This requires further detailed comparative international historical understanding of how accounting and auditing have variously operated, within businesses and other organizations and in shaping markets, across different countries and cultures.

Keywords: Business history, China, comparative international accounting history, conceptual framework, conservatism, fair value, institutional rationalised myth

Suggested Citation:

Macve, Richard H., Fair Value vs Conservatism? Aspects of the History of Accounting, Auditing, Business and Finance from Ancient Mesopotamia to Modern China (November 20, 2013). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
207 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do Firms Understate Stock OptionBased Compensation Expense Disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Disclosure of accounting policies. Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 2. London: The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Posted: 1971
D Ashton , V Beattie , J Broadbent , C Brooks , P Draper , M Ezzamel , D Gwilliam , R Hodgkinson , K Hoskin , P Pope , A Stark
British research in accounting and finance , volume 41 , p. 199 - 207 Posted: 2001
Crossref
V Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
The market reward for achieving analyst earnings expectations: does managing expectations or earnings matter
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 38 , p. 58 - 94 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
594
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,326
RANK
104,547
4 Citations
207 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies