Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Of Taxes: An Enquiry into Dutch to British Malacca, 1824-39

(2013) Studies in the History of Tax Law 6, pg. 393-420

Posted: 14 Feb 2014

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Date Written: August 7, 2013

Abstract

What happened to taxation in nineteenth-century British Malacca when the transition from Dutch government to British East India Company rule forced changes to the system? This study covers the period 1824-39 and sets out to examine the claim that British control of Malacca meant the government was conducted on ‘improved principles’, which presumably included taxation. The influence of the political economy writings of Adam Smith (1723-90) and James Mill (1773-1836) are considered in the evaluation of tax and associated administrative changes. Findings reveal that Enlightenment free-market principles were applied in the abolition of customs duties (excluding opium tax), and some smaller goods and service tax farms were modestly reformed. A limited direct tax assessment system was established for commercial and residential buildings. The positive principle of the right to appeal tax assessments was established, together with tax expenditure on societal infrastructure. Rent law theory was applied to increase land revenues, but failed in practice.

Keywords: tax history, tax farming, colonial tax

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane, Of Taxes: An Enquiry into Dutch to British Malacca, 1824-39 (August 7, 2013). (2013) Studies in the History of Tax Law 6, pg. 393-420, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394376
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow

English & Commonwealth Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies