Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R. J. Chambers and the AICPA's Postulates and Principles Controversy: A Case of Vicarious Action

Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 42, No. 2, pp. 101-132, 2015.

Posted: 14 Feb 2014 Last revised: 17 Mar 2016

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Christopher J. Napier

University of London - Royal Holloway College - School of Management

Date Written: February 12, 2014

Abstract

This study seeks to provide an account, drawing on previously unexamined archival material, of some of the events surrounding the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ (AICPA) postulates and principles controversy in the late 1950s and early 1960s. We examine these events from the viewpoint of Raymond J. Chambers, one of the most prolific and polarizing figures in accounting academia. The study relies on items of correspondence from the R. J. Chambers Archive and utilizes the term “vicarious action”, taken from Actor-Network Theory, to describe Chambers’ inability to influence the deliberations on accounting postulates and principles at the AICPA directly, and hence his need to influence the deliberations indirectly through intermediaries such as Maurice Moonitz. Chambers made three separate attempts to vicariously align the AICPA’s position on postulates and principles with that of his own, but all three of these attempts proved unsuccessful.

Keywords: R. J. Chambers, Maurice Moonitz, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Vicarious Action, Accounting History, Actor-Network Theory

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel and Napier, Christopher John, R. J. Chambers and the AICPA's Postulates and Principles Controversy: A Case of Vicarious Action (February 12, 2014). Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 42, No. 2, pp. 101-132, 2015., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2395017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2395017
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies