Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transnational Diffusional Patterns of Professional Accounting Certification Schemes in Africa. Evidence from Ghana

32 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2014

Solomon George Zori

Erasmus University

Date Written: February 15, 2014

Abstract

The idea of accountancy certification as opposed to certification in other transnational fields have been constructed around professional behaviour as compared to products, services and markets in the context of Information Technology, forestry products, business services. To be certified, on must undergo several years of examinations and training in order to obtain the “Certified Accountant” designation. This process of certification differ from country to country and this differentiation can be quite significant even among countries of close neighbours. Transnational diffusion studies have paid very little or no attention to the path ways through accountancy certification schemes have diffused from developed countries into developing countries.

This paper examines the transnational pathways and channels of diffused accountancy certification programs from developed countries into least developed countries. It contrast two continental set of developing countries as recipients of diffused certification schemes and show the distinctive patterns of diffusion in both cases. It then draws on a case study of Ghana in West Africa and demonstrate how accountancy certification schemes emerged and developed over time.

The paper finds that, whereas the often taken for granted colonial legacies between colonisers and the colonised has been used as a proxy for diffusion of institutions to occur, this is not often the case when looking at professional accountancy certification schemes. In some less developed countries, colonial legacies a dominated by market forces and yet in others, it may be seen as significant precondition for the diffusion of accountancy certification schemes to occur.

Keywords: Accountancy, Certification, Policy Diffusion

JEL Classification: J44, L84, M4

Suggested Citation:

Zori, Solomon George, Transnational Diffusional Patterns of Professional Accounting Certification Schemes in Africa. Evidence from Ghana (February 15, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2396657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2396657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
ICA Ghana Student Numbers. Source: Annual Report , volume 5 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Strong competition among British certification providers and against the local accountancy body is also documented
A.-N Abdallah
Taxation in Ghana. Principles , Practices and Planning Posted: 2006
C Aggestam
Towards a global accounting qualification? A Report from the 16th Session of the ISAR Group of the UN Palais de Nations , p. 805 - 813 Posted: 1999-02-19
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
568,179
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies