Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Civilisation

22 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2014

Aliyu Saidu

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Date Written: December 21, 2013

Abstract

This write-up tries to show the linkage between accounting and civilization. The study starts by showing how accounting evolves from the pre-pacioli era where accounting was seen as an activity. Pacioli era was then the next, which runs through the industrial revolution, in which accounting was seen as a discipline. The two eras where seen to be drivers of civilization through its contributive accounting factors that gave impetus to it. The formation of joint companies paved way for reactors to civilization. Although this couldn’t have been possible without a philosophical approach of normative accounting and later on, positive accounting due to paradigm shift. For accounting to continue to be proactive to civilization, it must among others, be that accounting research needs to take back control of time by bringing future to present through issuing standards that focus on discovery and independent observation of events.

Suggested Citation:

Saidu, Aliyu, Accounting and Civilisation (December 21, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2403992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2403992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
S Abubakar
Accounting in Pre-Pacioli: Genesis and Impact on the development of Accounting Profession in Nigeria
P.M.B , volume 1013 Posted: 2011-03-30
J R Aexander
History of Accounting. Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States 341 Posted: 2002
Edward Boyd
Ancient Systems of Accounting
History of Accounting and Accountants
R Bricker
The sociology of accountancy: a study of academic and practice community schism, Accounting Horizons , volume 4 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,742
RANK
91,136
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies