Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historical Perspective on the Corporate Interest Deduction

18 Chapman Law Review 29 (2014)

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 14-04

24 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2014 Last revised: 6 Nov 2014

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: March 24, 2014

Abstract

One of the so-called “pillars of sand” in the American business tax structure is the differential treatment of debt and equity. Corporations may deduct interest payments on their debt, but may not deduct dividend payments on their equity. This “ancient and pernicious” feature is criticized because it distorts corporate financing choices and inevitably leads to line drawing problems as the government engages in a futile chase to catch up with the latest financial innovation. Both the Obama administration and new Senate Finance Committee Chairman Ron Wyden have proposed capping the deductibility of corporate interest to mitigate these concerns. This has led commentators to come to the defense of the full corporate interest deduction, relying in part on a historical justification based on the origins of the corporate income tax as a proxy for reaching shareholder income. According to this argument, an entity-level tax was necessary to reach income that might be distributed as a dividend, since it could otherwise be avoided by deferring the dividend, but an entity-level tax was not necessary to reach income that might be paid out as interest, since interest payments were fixed and regular and non-deferrable. Therefore, interest payments were made deductible, but dividend payments were not.

This Essay, prepared in connection with a Chapman Law Review symposium on Business Tax Reform, contends that although there may be appropriate arguments in favor of maintaining a full corporate interest deduction, the historical premise for the origins of the corporate income tax system is not one of them. Corporate interest was deductible and dividend payments were not both in 1894, when deferral was not a concern because corporations routinely distributed all of their profits each year, and in 1909, when there was no individual income tax and therefore no tax incentive to retain earnings.

In fact, the early history of the deduction has more in common with modern proposals to cap the interest deduction than it does with the current system of full deductibility. In 1909, because of the fear that shareholders could easily shift their investment to bonds in order to disguise dividends as deductible interest payments, the corporate interest deduction was capped. Interest on corporate indebtedness in excess of the aggregate value of the corporation’s paid-up capital stock was made non-deductible. Business lobbying began to chip away at this limitation in the post-Sixteenth Amendment revenue acts. In 1913 and 1916, the cap on corporate interest deductions was raised to the value of the capital stock plus one-half the amount of outstanding debt. The cap was not lifted entirely until 1918, when it was done so to offset the exclusion of debt from the definition of invested capital in the war excess profits tax. Much like today, these early capped interest deduction provisions were an attempt to strike a balance between concerns about the inefficiencies of the debt/equity distinction and concerns about overburdening businesses in industries in which debt financing was a necessity.

Keywords: corporate tax, business tax reform, corporate interest deduction, corporate income tax system

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A., Historical Perspective on the Corporate Interest Deduction (March 24, 2014). 18 Chapman Law Review 29 (2014), UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 14-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2413968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Wall Earnings , J St
Posted: 1909-06-19
Crossref
Rush of Objections to Taft Tax Plan
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 1909-06-22
Curtis Jay Berger
Simple Interest and Complex Taxes, 81 COLUM
L. REV , volume 217 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Michael Asimow , Prepaid Principle , Interest
According to Marjorie Kornhauser, there was no deduction for interest in the June 17 th draft, but by the June 21 st draft it had been added. Kornhauser, supra note xx, at 111. Some taxpayer corporations attempted to argue that the value of the deduction should be tied to the total amount paid to the corporation even if it was in excess of par value, but this was rejected by the courts , volume 63 Posted: 1920
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,820
RANK
117,265
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies