Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aristotle's Geometrical Accounting

Cambridge Journal of Economics, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2014 Last revised: 20 Jul 2017

Gerhard Michael Ambrosi

Jean Monnet Chair ad personam, University of Trier

Date Written: April 3, 2014

Abstract

Aristotle’s analysis of economic exchange in the Nicomachean Ethics involves two paradigms which he addresses separately but then he stresses that there is no difference between them: barter and monetary exchange. Each one of them is rendered here separately but in a mutually consistent way by using geometrical methods which were well established and widely used in Aristotle’s intellectual surroundings. In this framework Aristotle’s ‘monetary equivalence’ in exchange appears as an application of Euclid’s proposition Elements I,43 about the equality of geometrical complements in a rectangle.

Aristotle repeatedly refers to ‘own production’ when mentioning exchange between two artisans, say, ‘builder’ and ‘farmer’. The accounting worth of the quantity of ‘own production’ in terms of money is then Aristotle’s “worth” of an artisan. This interpretation helps to make sense of Aristotle’s statements of the type: ‘as builder to farmer, so food to houses’. We show that this statement is logical and plausible provided that the goods in question are measured as proportions of sales out of own production. This result solves one of the major riddles of Aristotle’s text on exchange.

Accounting of exchange should be seen in connection with Aristotle’s critique of the Pythagoreans’ concept of justice. He claims that they wrongly equate justice with ‘reciprocation’. The paper does not speculate about Aristotle’s alternatives. It just shows that his text on ‘reciprocation’ can be interpreted with reference to a consistent and interesting system of geometrical accounting. This might not be his own invention, but Aristotle’s writings are the sole literary source for systematic geometrical accounting of economic exchange. This definitely merits listing Aristotle’s passages on exchange as being among the most interesting texts of ancient economic analysis.

Keywords: Aristotle, accounting, exchange, reciprocation, Euclid, Pythagoreanism

JEL Classification: B11, B31, B41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ambrosi, Michael, Aristotle's Geometrical Accounting (April 3, 2014). Cambridge Journal of Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Albertus Magnus ; See Langholm
Opera omnia -Super ethica: commentum et quaestiones
Monasterium Westfalorum Aschendorff: Institutum Alberti Magni Coloniense , volume 14 Posted: 1972
Armen Alchian , William Richard Albert , Allen
Exchange and Production -Theory in Use Posted: 1964
Matthew Amati
Meton's Star-City: Geometry and Utopia in Aristophanes' Birds
The Classical Journal , volume 105 Posted: 2010
Gerhard Ambrosi , Michael
Pre-Euclidian geometry and Aeginetan coin design -some further remarks
Archive for History of Exact Sciences , volume 66 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,714
RANK
364,553
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies