Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Facts, Foibles and Fables

21 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2014

Shann Turnbull

International Institute for Self-Governance; Sustainable Money Working Group; New Garden City Alliance

Date Written: April 3, 2014

Abstract

The research questions of this paper are: Has the efficacy of corporate governance improved by the transfer of national bundles of governance practices between jurisdictions? Have more and bigger corporations improved macro economic efficacy? Corporate regulation has substantially increased over the centuries but with diminishing efficacy. For example, 19th century US State constitutions required corporate charters to specify a limited time of existence, as was the practice with European common law companies. Now corporations obtain unlimited life to overpay investors and grow too big to manage, govern, regulate or be allowed to fail. The purpose and efficacy of appointing independent directors, audit committees and auditors has diminished from bundles of national practices transferred between UK & US jurisdictions. Scholars have neglected: (a) the macro and micro economic efficacy of corporations possessing the rights of perpetual succession; (b) the inefficiencies of corporate investors being overpaid with unlimited life firms; (c) historical practices that facilitated self-regulation; (d) the power of corporations to influence the political economy under which they operate that has allowed them to become too big to be reliably managed, governed or regulated; (e) excessive and inappropriate powers of directors to corrupt themselves, their auditors and their business; (f) to rigorously evaluate the fables and foibles like the so called independence of directors and/or auditors. To limit the size of firms, government, taxes and welfare costs, tax concessions are proposed for shareholders to approve long-term ownership transfer to local citizen stakeholders and welfare recipients.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate charters, Corporate Externalities, Corporate overpayments, Corporate Regulation

JEL Classification: B15, D02, D04, D23, D62, D63, D92, G18, G38, K22, L16, N80

Suggested Citation:

Turnbull, Shann, Corporate Governance Facts, Foibles and Fables (April 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Accountancyage
NAPF urges auditor shake-up Posted: 2004-12-13
Board directors and corporate governance: Trends in the G7 countries over the next ten years
Analytica Posted: 1992
A Anand , N Moloney
Reform of the Audit Process and the Role of Shareholder Voice: Transatlantic Perspectives
European Business Organization Law Review , volume 5 , p. 223 - 292 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D W Anderson
How well is your board performing? Your executives may have some (surprising) answers. ICD Director , volume 134 , p. 18 - 21 Posted: 2007-10
Load more
1 Citations
Shann Turnbull
Causes and Solutions for Misconduct in the Financial Services Industry
2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference · 45 Pages · Posted: 14 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 1 Apr 2019 · Downloads: 845
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,165
RANK
470,088
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies