Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Development of Regulation of CPAs: Experience and Educational Requirements

41 Pages Posted: 12 May 2014

Dennis Ortiz

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

John J. O'Shaughnessy

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: May 7, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the development of education and experience requirements for CPAs. Relying on the past work of Siegel and Rigsby (1989) and others, we frame the current state of CPA education in the context of changes over the past century plus. Beginning with the first passage of CPA legislation, through the current state of affairs, this study adds to our understanding of the current state of education and experience requirements. The goal of this study is to combine an understanding of past events with a thorough discussion of relevant current forces, and offer a unique perspective into the future in terms of anticipated changes in accounting education including experience as well as the 150-hour requirement.

Keywords: CPA regulations; CPA education; CPA experience

JEL Classification: M40, M53, J58, I21, G39, K29

Suggested Citation:

Ortiz, Dennis and O'Shaughnessy, John J. and Siegel, Philip H., An Analysis of the Development of Regulation of CPAs: Experience and Educational Requirements (May 7, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2434390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
Accounting Education Change Commission (AECC). 1990a. Objectives of education for accountants: Position statement number one
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 307 - 312
Accounting Education Change Commission -Its History and Impact
The American Accounting Association. Available at Posted: 1990
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP). 2008. Final report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Available at
Crossref
Information Technology Companies, and Five Largest Accounting and Professional Service Firms Join Forces in Developing XML-Based Financial Reporting Language Business Editors
AICPA Posted: 1999-08-30
Load more
1 Citations
Duong Thi Thanh Hien , Thu Hoai Thi Le , Giang Ha Hai
The role of outsourced accounting services in enhancing SMEs’ business performance
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 523 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,376
RANK
444,235
1 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies