Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A History of Tax Regulation Prior to the Administrative Procedure Act

Duke Law Journal, Vol. 63, No. 8, 2014

43 Pages Posted: 15 May 2014

Bryan Camp

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: May 13, 2014

Abstract

The relationship of the APA to tax administration has been the subject of increasing scrutiny from scholars and courts. Some of this scrutiny has critiqued the long-held view of the Department of Treasury that tax regulations issued under the general grant of authority in I.R.C. § 7805(a) are interpretative regulations within the meaning of the APA. Scholars and courts alike complain that "tax exceptionalism" has no place in the application of the APA. This Article reviews the almost 150-year history of tax administration before enactment of the APA to show the origins and basis for Treasury's long-held view. The Article also argues the very concept of "tax exceptionalism" rests on an erroneous premise. Rather than assuming that the APA provisions carry uniform meaning as applied to all federal agencies, this article submits that the general terms of the APA must be informed by the pre-APA history of tax regulation.

Keywords: Tax Exceptionalism, administrative procedure act, APA, Civil War, Tariff, legal history, tax administration, george boutwell, levi woodbury, regulation, rules, notice and comment, cohen, board of tax appeals, treasury decisions, treasury regulations, revenue act 1864, internal revenue, tax history

JEL Classification: K34, K40, K41, K42, K49, N41, N42

Suggested Citation:

Camp, Bryan T., A History of Tax Regulation Prior to the Administrative Procedure Act (May 13, 2014). Duke Law Journal, Vol. 63, No. 8, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2436642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
E G See
CCH) iii (explaining that the Standard Federal Tax Reporter "stems from the first loose leaf tax Reporter which was published in 1913 for the express purpose of providing complete coverage of the first constitutional income tax law and the developments under it"); cf. 4 NAT'L INCOME TAX MAG , volume 405 Posted: 1926
E G See , Bureau , U S Revenue , Document Dep&apos;t , false
INTERNAL REVENUE LAWS IN FORCE APRIL , volume 1 Posted: 1928
Crossref
For a summary of the history of the reenactment doctrine, see generally Norman J
Comment Hearn
Taxation: Effect of Re-Enactment of Revenue Statutes After Administrative Interpretation, 27 CALIF
L. REV , volume 578 Posted: 1939
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,318
RANK
312,985
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies