Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The History of Death Duties and Gift Duty in New Zealand

Michael Littlewood, “The History of Death Duties and Gift Duty in New Zealand” (2012) 18 New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 66-103.

38 Pages Posted: 21 May 2014

Michael Littlewood

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 19, 2014

Abstract

The aim of this article is to provide an account of the history of death duties and gift duty in New Zealand. This is worth doing for two main reasons. First, the story of these taxes’ rise and demise constitutes a significant aspect of the country’s fiscal and political history. It might even be said that the story of New Zealand’s death duties is essentially the same story as the country’s political history, but cut at a novel angle. More particularly, whilst there currently seems to be very little enthusiasm for the reintroduction of death duties in New Zealand (except, perhaps, as a necessary accompaniment to a capital gains tax), these taxes for many years enjoyed broad political support. Indeed, it was widely regarded as obvious that a significant part – perhaps as much as 50 percent or so – of every large estate ought to go to the state. There seems, then, to have been a profound change in popular attitudes.

Secondly, the reform of the tax system is a process which, it seems safe to assume, will never be completed; even the system’s basic structure seems perennially up for debate. It seems obvious that the process of tax reform might benefit from an awareness of what has gone before; yet the literature on the history of New Zealand’s tax system remains incomplete. One of the aims of the article, therefore, is to make a contribution to the filling of one of the larger gaps in it. More particularly, there has been much discussion recently of the possibility that New Zealand should, like most of the rest of the developed world, introduce a tax on capital gains. If such a tax were to be introduced, it would be necessary, according to the view prevailing in most of the rest of the developed world, to support it with some form of death tax (or, at least, to structure the capital gains tax so as not to exempt inherited capital gains). But this aspect of the question seems to have received relatively little attention. If, however, there is to be a capital gains tax, and if it is to be accompanied by the reintroduction of a death tax, it might be useful to take into account the history of this form of taxation, as practised in this country.

Keywords: death duties, estate duty, gift duty, tax history, New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Littlewood, Michael, The History of Death Duties and Gift Duty in New Zealand (May 19, 2014). Michael Littlewood, “The History of Death Duties and Gift Duty in New Zealand” (2012) 18 New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 66-103., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2439053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2439053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Michael Joseph Savage
1872-1940) was born in Australia and emigrated to New Zealand in 1907. He became a Labour MP in 1919, leader of the Labour Party in 1933, and Prime Minister Posted: 1935
Peter Fraser
1884-1950) was born in Scotland and emigrated to New Zealand at the age of 26. He became an MP in a by-election in 1918 and was Prime Minister from 1940 (when Savage died) until 1949 (when Labour
Finance Act Posted: 1939
Crossref
Finance Act Posted: 1939
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
835
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,752
RANK
67,241
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies