Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dutch East India Company's Tax Farming in 18th Century Malacca

eJournal of Tax Research (2014) vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 253 - 281

29 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2014

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Jeyapalan Kasipillai

Monash University - Sunway Campus

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

This study concerns eighteenth century Dutch East India Company (VOC) tax farming practices in the Southeast Asian port town of Malacca. Empirical data from VOC archives are used to determine the value of VOC’s tax farming. Adopting a qualitative methodology, and drawing on perspectives from Adam Smith’s tax maxims, the study focuses on determining the impact of the VOC’s tax farming practices on Malacca’s taxpayers, whether they were inter-continental or local intra-island traders, townspeople, or Malay farmers. The study facilitates a further understanding of the global phenomenon of tax farming practice and its demise. Findings suggest that the impact of the VOC’s Malacca tax farming varied across groups of taxpayers, but more negatively affected minority and local Malay groups, demonstrating why Adam Smith’s governance maxims still guide government tax policy in many countries today. The study complements the paper published from the 2012 Tax History Conference in Cambridge, which covered the nineteenth century handover of Malacca by the Dutch to the British.

Keywords: tax history, tax farming, colonial tax

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane and Kasipillai, Jeyapalan, The Dutch East India Company's Tax Farming in 18th Century Malacca (June 1, 2014). eJournal of Tax Research (2014) vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 253 - 281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2448608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
G A See Eg , Lee
The tithe rent charge: a pioneer in income indexation
Business & Financial History , volume 6 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 0301
Ross Vosslamber
Taxation for New Zealand's future: The introduction of New Zealand's progressive income tax in 1891
Accounting History 105 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Margaret Lamb
Questions of Taxation Framed as Accounting Historical Research: A Suggested Approach
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 30 , issue 92 Posted: 2003
Crossref
John Creswell
Research and Design (Sage Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,201
RANK
393,016
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies