Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Double-Entry Bookkeeping: The Mathematical Treatment

21 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2014

David Ellerman

Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana

Date Written: July 7, 2014

Abstract

Double-entry bookkeeping (DEB) implicitly uses a specific mathematical construction, the group of differences using pairs of unsigned numbers ("T-accounts"). That construction was only formulated abstractly in mathematics in the 19th century — even though DEB had been used in the business world for over five centuries. Yet the connection between DEB and the group of differences (here called the "Pacioli group") is still largely unknown both in mathematics and accounting. The precise mathematical treatment of DEB allows clarity on certain conceptual questions and it immediately yields the generalization of the double-entry method to multi-dimensional vectors typically representing the different types of property involved in an enterprise or household.

Keywords: double-entry method, group of differences, Pacioli group, T-accounts, multi-dimensional double-entry bookkeeping

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ellerman, David, On Double-Entry Bookkeeping: The Mathematical Treatment (July 7, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2463442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
R N Anthony
Management Accounting Posted: 1970
Crossref
A Cayley
Presidential Address to the British Association for the Advancement of Science
The Collected Mathematical Papers of Arthur Cayley , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1896
A Cayley
The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry Posted: 1894
A Charnes , C Colantoni , W W Cooper
A futurological justification for historical cost and multidimensional accounting
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 315 - 337 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,494
RANK
276,301
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Operations Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies