Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Структура и Эволюция Социально-Экономического Института Учета (Structure and Evolution of Socio-Economic Institute of Accounting)

Международный бухгалтерский учет, № 26 (320), 2014, с. 53-62 (International Accounting, N 26 (320), 2014, p. 53-61.)

10 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2014

Olga N. Volkova

Independant

Date Written: May 16, 2014

Abstract

Russian Abstract: В статье автором проведен анализ структуры и эволюции учета как социально-экономического института с начала 2-го тысячелетия н.э. до наших дней. Показано, что последовательность этапов формирования института учета и его функционал отвечают общим закономерностям институциализации. В структуре учета выделены институты учетных практик (техник и профессий) и учетного знания (образования и науки), выделены и описаны этапы их развития. English Abstract: The article analyses the structure and evolution of accounting as a socio-economic institute since the beginning of the 2nd millennium BC to the present day. The author demonstrates that the sequence of stages of formation of the institute of accounting and its functionality meet the common patterns of institutionalization. The structure of accounting highlights institutions of accounting practices (techniques and professions) and accounting knowledge (education and sciences) and the paper discerns and describes the milestones of their evolution.

Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.

Keywords: accounting, social-economic institute, accounting institute, institutional history, accounting history, audit, multi-paradigmatic, accounting education

JEL Classification: B15, B25,G29, M4, N00

Suggested Citation:

Volkova, Olga N., Структура и Эволюция Социально-Экономического Института Учета (Structure and Evolution of Socio-Economic Institute of Accounting) (May 16, 2014). Международный бухгалтерский учет, № 26 (320), 2014, с. 53-62 (International Accounting, N 26 (320), 2014, p. 53-61.), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
О Н Волкова
От ремесла к институту: эво-люция бухгалтерского учета в Италии от Средне-вековья до Нового времени // Вопросы экономики , p. 135 - 152 Posted: 2012
А Грейф
Уроки средневековой торговли: пер. с англ. М.: Издательский дом Высшей школы экономики Posted: 2013
Л Косарева
Истоки двойной записи в Италии XIII-XV вв. // Финансы и бизнес , p. 176 - 184 Posted: 2006
Д Норт , Институты
институциональные изменения и функционирование экономики. М.: Фонд экономической книги «Начала» Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,539
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies