Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the FASB's Dissenting Opinions and the Conceptual Framework

47 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2014

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Julie Harrison

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: July 10, 2014

Abstract

In this paper we report the results of a content analysis of dissenting opinions found in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards. During 1973 to 2009 the FASB issued 171 financial accounting standards. Half of these standards contained dissenting opinions. We identify and classify dissenting opinions based on whether the arguments are conceptual (conceptual-framework related and non-framework related) or non-conceptual (e.g., scope, due process). We examine whether the types and frequencies of arguments change over time in response to the development of the FASB’s conceptual framework. We also examine the arguments used in terms of the FASB’s recently released Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 8 and the American Accounting Association’s Financial Accounting Committee’s criteria for quality of accounting standards (AAA 1998). The results document the use of framework concepts and have implications for future revisions of the conceptual framework.

Keywords: FASB, Due Process, Dissenting Opinions, Content Analysis, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Harrison, Julie A, An Analysis of the FASB's Dissenting Opinions and the Conceptual Framework (July 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2464862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
Crossref
American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1998
Criteria for assessing the quality of an accounting standard
Accounting Horizons , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 162
R Bechtel
Developments in computer science with application to text analysis Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,206
RANK
284,192
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies