Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alvin R. Jennings: Managing Partner, Policy-Maker and Institute President

Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 42, No. 1, pp. 85-104, 2015

Posted: 21 Jul 2014 Last revised: 17 Mar 2016

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Vaughan S. Radcliffe

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Mitchell Stein

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Date Written: July 8, 2014

Abstract

Alvin R. Jennings (1905-1990) was a rare breed of an accountant. He was trained as a practitioner and rose to become a managing partner at Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, but he kept a constant watch on the academic field of accounting research. Jennings served on the influential American Institute of Accountants’ Committee on Auditing Procedure (1946-49) and later as the president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (1957-58). This paper explores these activities and Jennings’ contribution to the professional, academic, and institution discourse of the accounting discipline.

Keywords: Accounting History, Biography, Alvin R. Jennings, Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Committee on Auditing Procedure

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel and Racliffe, Vaughan S. and Stein, Mitchell, Alvin R. Jennings: Managing Partner, Policy-Maker and Institute President (July 8, 2014). Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 42, No. 1, pp. 85-104, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2468692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2468692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,464
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies