Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Management Accounting Routines in Small Businesses: A Social Construction Perspective

Posted: 30 Oct 2000

Lew Perren

University of Brighton

Paul Grant

University of Brighton

Abstract

This paper explores the development of management accounting in small firms through a social construction perspective. Taking Dirsmith's (1998) lead we examine the evolution of control and decision-making processes within four growth-orientated service sector businesses. Key to the perspective is the notion of the owner-manager and his/her employees as creators of management accounting routines that form through a cycle of action, externalisation and habitualisation. These routines still remain in the control of the originator and are flexible in nature. As the business grows these routines may become objectified into localised management accounting "facts" and they may also be challenged by externally imported accounting conventions. This paper explores the creation of idiosyncratic accounting knowledge and the effects of its transmission over the history of the businesses.

Key Words: Social construction; Small business; Management accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Perren, Lew and Grant, Paul, The Evolution of Management Accounting Routines in Small Businesses: A Social Construction Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=247029
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,671
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies