Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Social and Environmental Reporting Research on Bangladeshi Organizations: A Postcolonial Critique

23 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2014

Dewan Mahboob Hossain

University of Dhaka

Date Written: July 29, 2014

Abstract

This article depicts the chronological development of research on social and environmental accounting practices of the companies of a developing country – Bangladesh. The research identifies that research on social and environmental accounting from Bangladeshi perspective started in 1996. Form then up to 2006, the researches were mostly small scale and methodologically simple. It is mainly from 2007 the researchers having Western university affiliation became interested in conducting research on Bangladesh. From then a development in terms of content and methodology can be noticed. The article concluded that the main contributors in the development of research in this area are the scholars affiliated with the Western universities. Local Bangladeshi researchers, because of their ‘colonized’ mentality, just followed and imitated the Westerners in terms of the methodologies and other aspects of research.

Keywords: corporate social and environmental reporting, Bangladesh, Postcolonialism

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Dewan Mahboob, The Development of Social and Environmental Reporting Research on Bangladeshi Organizations: A Postcolonial Critique (July 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2473571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2473571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Ahmad
Environmental accounting & reporting practices: significance and issues: a case of Bangladeshi companies
Global Journal of Management and Business Research , volume 12 , issue 14 , p. 119 - 127 Posted: 2012
M M Ali , M M Rashid , M A Islam
Environmental accounting and its applicability in Bangladesh , volume 4 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 2010
H M Arif , M H Tuhin
Disclosure of non-financial information voluntarily in the annual reports of financial institutions: a study on listed banks of Bangladesh
European Journal of Business and Economics , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 44 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Asaduzzaman , M K Hamid , S Afrin
Corporate Environmental Reporting (CER) practices: empirical evidence from selected non-financial companies in Bangladesh
International Journal of Busyness and general Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
451,566
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Social and Environmental Accounting Research: Major Contributions and Future Directions for Developing Countries

By Muhammad Azizul Islam

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies