Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Trueblood Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements (1971-73): A Historical Study

55 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2014

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 23, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the background and work of the AICPA’s Accounting Objectives Study Group, chaired by Robert M. Trueblood, which issued its important report in October 1973. In particular, the research is informed by interviews with three members of the Study Group and with four of the principal members of its research staff. Evidence is presented on the members of the Study Group who supported, or did not support, various positions in the report, including their apparent reasons, as well on the influential role of the staff in shaping the report. The conclusion is that the full-time staff, abetted by the financial analyst member of the Study Group, played the key role in driving the thrust of the final report, which recommended that financial statements should provide users with information about the cash-generating ability of the enterprise, and eventually the cash flow to the users themselves. This recommendation resonated with the FASB and with standard setters around the world.

Keywords: objectives, financial statements, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The Trueblood Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements (1971-73): A Historical Study (August 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2485887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2485887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Martin S Gans
Posted: 2002-02-18
Martin S Interview With , Gans
For Parker's ideology on this issue Posted: 1974
Chapter 8, the Study Group concluded that, for governmental and not-for-profit 66 Interview with George H. Sorter
67 Interview with Sidney Davidson Posted: 2001-07-27
Martin S Interviews With , Gans
Posted: 2001-03-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,637
RANK
146,022
4 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies