Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"Presents" for the "Indians": Land, Colonialism and Accounting in Canada

Posted: 2 Oct 2001

Dean Neu

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Abstract

Te Oka Crises, Gustafsen Lake, Ipperwash. This last decade of visible confrontations between the Canadian army/police and first nations people have been, and are, about land. Land that the First nations' people claim is rightfully theirs and which the government claims has been appropriately paid for. But what constitutes a purchase, were these exchanges ever completed, and what role(s) did accounting play in not only these particular exchanges but in the process of colonization itself? The current study returns to the 1830--1860 period in an attempt to answer these questions. Starting from a "governmentality" perspective, we argue that accounting discourses and techniques were located within the logic of imperialism and enmeshed within colonial systems of government. More specifically, we observe accounting discourses being used to rationalize colonial relations, and accounting techniques being used as both a general and specific mode of colonial government.

Suggested Citation:

Neu, Dean, "Presents" for the "Indians": Land, Colonialism and Accounting in Canada. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=250021
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies