Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Engineering and the Arms Race between Accounting Standard Setters and Preparers

54 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2014 Last revised: 5 May 2015

Ronald A. Dye

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: November 1, 2014

Abstract

This essay analyzes some problems accounting standard setters confront in erecting barriers to managers bent on boosting their firms’ financial reports through financial engineering (FE) activities. It also poses some unsolved research questions regarding interactions between preparers and standard setters. It starts by discussing the history of lease accounting to illustrate the institutional disadvantage of standard setters relative to preparers in their speeds of response. Then, the essay presents a general theorem which shows that, independent of how accounting standards are written, it is impossible to eliminate all FE efforts of preparers. It also discusses the desirability of choosing accounting standards on the basis of the FE efforts the standards induce preparers to engage in. Then, the essay turns to accounting boards’ concepts statements; it point out that no concept statement recognizes the general lack of goal congruence between preparers and standard setters in their desires to produce informative financial statements; we also point out the relative lack of concern in recent concept statements for the representational faithfulness of the financial reporting of transactions. The essay asserts that these oversights may be responsible, in part, for standard setters promulgating recent standards that result in difficult-to-audit financial reports. The essay also discusses factors other than accounting standards that contribute to FE, including the high-powered incentives of managers, the limited disclosures and/or information sources outside the face of firms’ financial statements about a firm’s FE efforts, firms’ principal sources of financing, the increasing complexity of transactions, the difficulties in auditing certain transactions, and the roles of the courts and culture. The essay ends by proposing some other recommendations on how standards can be written to reduce FE.

Keywords: Accounting standards; financial engineering; the conceptual framework; the roles of norms and culture in financial reporting

JEL Classification: M31

Suggested Citation:

Dye, Ronald A. and Glover, Jonathan C. and Sunder, Shyam, Financial Engineering and the Arms Race between Accounting Standard Setters and Preparers (November 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2508360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2508360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,432
RANK
120,875
8 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies