Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A History of Japanese Accounting Reforms as a Microfoundation of the Democratic Socio-Economy: Accountics Part II

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 32, No. 6, 2007

Posted: 15 Nov 2014

Tomo Hi de Suzuki

University of Oxford, Business School (Former); University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Immediately after WWII, unlike statisticians' reforms, accountants failed to establish the Cabinet-controlled Accounting Committee and Accounting Law which were originally envisaged as the key to successful "Accountics": the management of the socio-economy through standardized accounting (Part I). Nevertheless, July 1948 is regarded as the beginning of Japan's accounting revolution, as academic accountants accomplished a series of fundamental reforms.

Part II examines the process through which micro financial systems were swiftly developed as a microfoundation of the new "democratic" socio-economy. First, academics implemented new accounting for large companies in order to dilute the Zaibatsu- and Imperial-centred regime; followed by censored and standardized accounting education for SMEs and the public in order to change the public perception of the roles of businesses in society. The foci of examination are the political manoeuvres of reformers, the consequences of new accounting, and pragmatic philosophy of the academics in action. Towards the end of the paper, some implications of this history are considered in relation to the impacts of the IAS/IFRS on today's international socio-economy.

Keywords: national income accounting, history of financial accounting, Japanese accounting, Growth of Japanese economy, Global Standardization

JEL Classification: M41, B20, F36, G28, O21, P41

Suggested Citation:

Suzuki, Tomo Hi de, A History of Japanese Accounting Reforms as a Microfoundation of the Democratic Socio-Economy: Accountics Part II (2007). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 32, No. 6, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2524329
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies