Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agenda Setting at the FASB: Evidence from the Role of the FASAC

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 15-042

49 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2014 Last revised: 22 May 2018

Abigail M. Allen

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Date Written: May 18, 2018

Abstract

I examine the extent to which the FASB’s agenda determination is a function of the contemporaneous priorities expressed by its primary constituents: auditors, preparers, and financial statement users. Using the FASB’s consultation with the FASAC as a lens through which to view constituent priorities, I find evidence that from 1982 to 2001 influence on FASB agenda decisions is concentrated among “Big N” audit firms, whereas from 2002 to 2006 the priorities of financial constituents appear most significant. Across both periods, I find no evidence of significant preparer influence in agenda formation, which is in contrast to their documented role in later stages of standard setting. Collectively, the results contribute to our understanding of the influence of constituents in standard setting and highlight a shift in that influence over time.

Keywords: Standard Setting, FASB, Lobbying, Agenda Formation

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Abigail M., Agenda Setting at the FASB: Evidence from the Role of the FASAC (May 18, 2018). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 15-042, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2533184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2533184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,271
RANK
248,130
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies