Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Research: Past, Present and Future

17 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2014 Last revised: 29 Dec 2014

Thomas R. Dyckman

Cornell University - Department of Accounting

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December 24, 2014

Abstract

This paper begins with a description of the accounting research environment prior to, and shortly following, the appearance of Abacus in 1965. During this period, the approach to accounting was predominantly normative in focus, but also reflected historical approaches, as researchers grappled with the accounting issues faced by practicing accountants and bodies that established accounting principles. The 1960s witnessed the beginning of a major change in the interests and approach of accounting researchers. Attention gradually decreased its reliance on the normative approach towards an empirical analysis but with an apparent inclination towards impressing academic colleagues rather than addressing the problems of practice. The new focus introduced the ideas and concepts of several sister disciplines, including the social sciences, notably cognitive psychology and mathematics, particularly statistics, into accounting research. This era, which is still with us to this day, stressed theory, mathematical modeling, and, importantly, statistical testing. Simultaneously, the new directions gradually abandoned the contributions of normative approaches and diminished the interest in history, both of which had enlightened the problems of practice that previously held center stage. We examine a broad sample of research articles to inform our discussion and analysis, and then we comment on some of the limitations of the new data-driven approaches embedded in current research efforts. We conclude with ten recommendations for accounting researchers to consider as they tackle the complex issue of increasing the relevance of our efforts in the future. We hope that these recommendations, if adopted, will increase the academic relevance of academic research to the problems facing decision makers beyond the academic community.

Keywords: Accounting research, research methodology

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dyckman, Thomas R. and Zeff, Stephen A., Accounting Research: Past, Present and Future (December 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2542632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2542632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements Supplements Posted: 1957
S S Alexander
Income Measurement in a Dynamic Economy Posted: 1949
J W Ashley
Stock Prices and Changes in Earnings and Dividends: Some Empirical Results
Journal of Political Economy , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 85 Posted: 1962
Crossref
The Meaning and "Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
the Independent Auditor's Report Posted: 1975
Load more
1 Citations
Brian Singleton-Green
Public Policy and Accounting Research: What Is to Be Done?
Accounting in Europe , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 171 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,292
RANK
58,933
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies