Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substitutes for Legal Protection: Corporate Governance and Dividends in Victorian Britain

Economic History Review (2011) vol 64, no. 2, pp. 571-597

45 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2015

Gareth Campbell

Queen's University Belfast; Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

John D. Turner

Queen's University Belfast; Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Date Written: January 1, 2011

Abstract

Companies in Victorian Britain operated in a laissez-faire legal environment from the perspective of outside investors, implying that such investors were not protected by the legal system. This paper seeks to identify the alternative mechanisms which outside shareholders used to protect themselves by examining the dividend policy and governance of over 800 publicly-traded companies at the beginning of the 1880s. We assess the importance of these mechanisms by estimating their impact on Tobin’s Q. Our evidence suggests that dividends and well-structured and incentivised boards of directors may have played a role in protecting the interests of outside investors.

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, Gareth and Campbell, Gareth and Turner, John D., Substitutes for Legal Protection: Corporate Governance and Dividends in Victorian Britain (January 1, 2011). Economic History Review (2011) vol 64, no. 2, pp. 571-597, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2545233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Weisbach Hermalin
Boards of directors
Hart
Corporate governance
Kennedy
Industrial structure
Chandler
Scale and scope
Load more
2 Citations
Jan Annaert , Gertjan Verdickt
Go Active or Stay Passive: Investment Trust, Financial Innovation and Diversification in Belgium's early days
45 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 21 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 280
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sturla Lyngnes Fjesme , Neal Galpin , Lyndon Moore
An Efficient Market? Going Public in London, 1891–191
The Economic History Review, Vol. 72, Issue 3, pp. 1008-1027, 2019 · 20 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,730
RANK
759,919
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Questions and Answers About the Financial Crisis

By Gary B. Gorton

Where it All Began: Lending of Last Resort and the Bank of England During the Overend, Gurney Panic of 1866

By Marc Flandreau and Stefano Ugolini

Where it All Began: Lending of Last Resort and the Bank of England During the Overend, Gurney Panic of 1866

By Marc Flandreau and Stefano Ugolini

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies