Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Neo-Colonialism and the Colonization of Accounting Research.

International Journal of Critical Accounting, 9(1), 18-41.

34 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2016 Last revised: 17 Apr 2017

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: May 31, 2016

Abstract

While assertions of the colonization of accounting research have occasionally been made in the accounting literature, not only has there been no systematic examination of the evidence that supports these conclusions, no evidence has yet been proffered. This paper explores whether accounting research has been colonized by considering sociologically the essential elements of colonization and whether they can be applied to accounting research. A critical examination of the elements of colonization — control over communication, capital, culture, and education; elitism; and English as the dominant language — finds that accounting research has been colonized by acts of symbolic violence which has resulted in misrecognized class distinctions and neo-colonial dependency relationships within accounting research. It urges accounting researchers recognize the neo-colonial power relationships that have been imposed upon them by the cultural imperialism of the dominant research culture.

Keywords: accounting research, colonization, neo-colonialism, research construct, meta-construct, symbolic violence, false consciousness

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, On Neo-Colonialism and the Colonization of Accounting Research. (May 31, 2016). International Journal of Critical Accounting, 9(1), 18-41., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C Alawattage , D Wickramasinghe
Weapons of the weak: Subalterns' emancipatory accounting in Ceylon tea
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 379 - 404 Posted: 2009
Crossref
American Heritage Dictionary Posted: 2014
Crossref
P W Bell
Image and disarray in accounting and the problem of attracting quality inputs into doctoral programs , p. 59 - 68 Posted: 1984
American Accounting Association Doctoral Programs Conference
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
470,088
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies