Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wink, Wink, Nudge Judge: Persuading U.S. Courts to Take Accountants Seriously in Federal Securities Cases, with Help from the U.K. Companies Act

16 Tenn. J. Bus. L. (2015)

56 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2015 Last revised: 6 Jun 2015

Kurt S. Schulzke

University of North Georgia

Date Written: November 23, 2014

Abstract

The 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers reopened wounds many thought were healed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002. The Lehman litigation finally ended in late 2013 with audit firm Ernst & Young paying $99 million to investors who claimed the firm misled them with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Other defendants, including banks, officers, and directors, paid out more than $500 million.

The bright line standards of GAAP and SOX were obviously not enough to protect Lehman plaintiffs or defendants. Why not? The 2006 fraud trial of Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling offers clues. When asked at trial whether U.S. accounting principles (GAAP) permitted Enron’s accountants to mislead Enron’s auditors, Skilling’s accounting expert Walter Rush replied: “[T]his isn't even an issue under GAAP. GAAP doesn't talk about misleading. GAAP doesn't talk about integrity. GAAP talks about accounting rules, how you measure assets and liabilities, what kind of disclosures you make.” At about the same time, the SEC’s Chief Accountant declared that most financial statements are misleading.

Against this backdrop, in leading recent securities fraud cases, federal courts have disregarded or studiously avoided GAAP and accounting experts, examining more broadly whether financial statements are “fairly presented” or “not misleading,” thus dismissing costly accounting testimony as irrelevant and suddenly exposing defendants — like those in Lehman — to unforeseen legal exposure. Meanwhile, leading accounting scholars and professional associations, domestic and international, have vociferously decried the FASB’s narrow focus on GAAP compliance to the virtual exclusion of fairness and integrity in financial reporting.

This article documents the tendency of federal courts to ignore accounting experts in federal securities fraud cases, chronicles the ongoing debate over GAAP compliance and fair presentation, summarizes relevant U.S. and U.K. statutes and regulations, and recommends reforms suggested by the U.K. Companies Act 2006, the IASB, and the FASB’s own Concepts Statement No. 8 that may help to restore the marketplace and courtroom relevance of accounting experts.

Keywords: Fair presentation, accounting, expert witness, true and fair view, U.K. Companies Act 2006

JEL Classification: K22, M41, K33

Suggested Citation:

Schulzke, Kurt S., Wink, Wink, Nudge Judge: Persuading U.S. Courts to Take Accountants Seriously in Federal Securities Cases, with Help from the U.K. Companies Act (November 23, 2014). 16 Tenn. J. Bus. L. (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2554817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
SEC Accounting Series Release No. 150 , volume 2 Posted: 1973-12-20
Crossref
Burton
Crossref
SAS , volume 5 , issue 5 Posted: 1975
Crossref
See Large, supra note 169 , p. 317 - 336
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
472,944
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies