Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Chinese Accounting and Bookkeeping before 1850: Initial Insights from the Tŏng Tài Shēng Business Account Books (1798-1850)

37 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2015

Weipeng Yuan

Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) - Institute of Economics

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Debin Ma

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economic History

Date Written: February 9, 2015

Abstract

Since China’s ‘reform and opening up’ policy began in 1978 there has been increasing interest in how Chinese business activity was organised during the era before the imposition of central planning under Chairman Mao. Some business archives from that era have now been discovered and examined by Chinese scholars but the businesses and their accounts have mostly been of a relatively simple nature or have clearly reflected the increasing influence of Western businesses (and Western double-entry bookkeeping [DEB]) that was disseminated through the ‘treaty ports’ (such as Shanghai) established from around the middle of the 19th century following the Opium Wars.

In this paper we report our exploration into the original account books contained in the archive of Tŏng Tài Shēng (‘TTS’), which has recently been discovered and is the largest such archive examined so far. It yields important data about economic activity but our focus here is on the accounting practices it reveals. TTS was a substantial ‘grocery/merchant-banking’ business in northern China and its surviving books span a period from the late 18th century to the middle of the 19th century. They may therefore be regarded as representing primarily ‘indigenous’ Chinese bookkeeping practices. We set out the various kinds of accounts that were kept and what can be reconstructed of the interrelationships between daily running records and the various ‘ledger’ accounts for customers and suppliers (including loans at interest) and of the process by which financial statements were produced. We give illustrations of important accounts and also explain the specialist system of numerals used for accounting purposes, the Sūzhōu măzì [苏州码字]. Given the claims that have repeatedly been made for the importance of DEB for capitalism’s development in the West, our findings from examining this extensive collection of original account books are important for understanding the nature of Chinese bookkeeping and accounting and its role in China’s economic development.

Keywords: Chinese accounting archives of late Qīng era, Chinese business history, Sūzhōu măzì, double-entry bookkeeping (DEB)

JEL Classification: M41, N01, N85, P51

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Weipeng and Macve, Richard H. and Ma, Debin, The Development of Chinese Accounting and Bookkeeping before 1850: Initial Insights from the Tŏng Tài Shēng Business Account Books (1798-1850) (February 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2562228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2562228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M Aiken , W Lu
The evolution of bookkeeping in China: integrating historical trends with Western influences
Abacus , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 220 - 262 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P K Auyeung , P Ivory
A Weberian model applied to the study of accounting stagnation in late Qing China
Accounting, Business & Financial History , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 26 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P K Auyeung , L Fu , Z Liu
Double-Entry Bookkeeping in Early-Twentieth-Century China
Business History Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 96 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W T Baxter
The House of Hancock: Business in Boston 1724-1775 Posted: 1945
Load more
1 Citations
Jack Barbalet
Primitive accumulation and Chinese mirrors
Journal of Classical Sociology , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 27 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,833
RANK
273,040
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies