Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contesting the Indigenous Development of 'Chinese Double-Entry Bookkeeping' and its Significance in China's Economic Institutions and Business Organization Before c.1850

52 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2015

Keith Hoskin

Warwick Business School

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 3, 2012

Abstract

The recent rapid growth of China’s economy has reopened historical debate about the extent to which it had also prospered during the last Imperial dynasties (the Míng and the Qīng, 1368-1911) through developing a significant market orientation on its underlying agricultural base. As a contribution to this debate, we question here the extent to which there is justification for claims concerning the development of a concomitant and indigenous Chinese form of double-entry bookkeeping (CDEB) — conventionally seen as having developed among bankers, merchants and proto-industrialists — and for its significance within such a market economy. Given that discussion on post-medieval European accounting history indicates that there is not necessarily a direct and positive connection between the development of Italian double-entry bookkeeping (DEB) from the fourteenth century and the development of Western capitalism, we argue that caution should be exercised in drawing any analogous connection in the Chinese context. We therefore review how far the emerging archival and related historical evidence for the development of Chinese accounting practices and discourses supports the arguments that have been made for CDEB. Considering how these developments may then be viewed in the context of the Chinese knowledge-world we comment on the more foundational issue concerning the similarities and differences between the knowledge-worlds within which DEB and CDEB emerged, as a means to better reading the specific historical practices and discourses of each and their linkages to the modern world. As part of such a rereading, we question how far there could have been possible intercultural linkages between the Western and Chinese developments across the fifteenth to nineteenth centuries. In this way we seek to problematize conventional formulations of the respective significance of both DEB and CDEB, while acknowledging that, in the present circumstances constraining such transcultural historical study, the mechanisms of translation and diffusion of practices and discourses generally remain obscure and inconclusive until we reach the era of the transformation of China’s modern economy in recent decades. There remains a clear need for further collaborative research between Western and Chinese scholars, utilising additional primary archival sources as they are discovered, to further test the arguments developed in the existing research literatures, and here.

Keywords: Chinese accounting, double-entry, Sombart thesis, intercultural translation, mercantile capitalism

JEL Classification: M14, N011, N85, P51

Suggested Citation:

Hoskin, Keith and Macve, Richard H., Contesting the Indigenous Development of 'Chinese Double-Entry Bookkeeping' and its Significance in China's Economic Institutions and Business Organization Before c.1850 (February 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2562276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2562276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
; Lin , Lu Aiken
1993: 178)-although we presume this was through intermediary traders-where by the end of the thirteenth century researchers have argued the earliest examples of , p. 106 - 113 Posted: 1992
until the end of Imperial rule) commerce expanded yet further 66 and it is claimed that CDEB emerged, although single-entry bookkeeping still dominated. By now, in between the Căo Liú and the Zŏng Qīng, there was the Xì Liú. 67 The Xì Liú organized the account entries from the Căo Liú, still chronologically (liúshuĭ zhàng [流水账]: ‗running water recording'-Lin 1992: 105), into a ‗top' and ‗bottom' layout for their Shōu and Fù aspects respectively. It was usually updated from the Căo Liú daily, and totalled every ten days (xún [旬]): one third of a lunar month), every (lunar) month (yuè [月]) and every year (suì [岁]). 68 From it ‗postings' were made to the Zŏng Qīng
With increasing commercial and credit activities, financial statements-Hóng Zhàng-calculating ‗cost, profit and loss' 69 were prepared from the accounts in the Zŏng Qīng
An intermediate framework, before ‗full' CDEB emerged, was the ‗Three Feet' (or ‗Tripod', ‗Three Leg', or ‗Lame' bookkeeping system-Sānjiăoshū
Load more
7 Citations
Keith Hoskin , Debin Ma , Richard H. Macve
A Genealogy of Myths About the Rationality of Accounting in the West and in the East
33 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 304
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shuwen Deng , Richard H. Macve
The Development of China's Auditing Profession: Globalizing Translation Meets Self-Determination in Identity Construction
91 Pages · Posted: 10 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 391
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Weipeng Yuan , Richard Macve
Reframing imperial China’s indigenous accounting history: further discoveries in archival materials from the three centuries before 1850
Accounting and Business Research , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Leslie Hannah
The Palgrave Companion to LSE Economics
, p. 113 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
RANK
454,090
7 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies