Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of China's Auditing Profession: Globalizing Translation Meets Self-Determination in Identity Construction

91 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2015

Shuwen Deng

Shanghai Stock Exchange

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 6, 2015

Abstract

The indigenous audit industries of most non-US/UK countries have confronted perceived market monopolization by the set of international ‘Big 4’ firms which, at least outside the EU, may be regarded as ‘foreign firms’. The history of China’s attempts over the last four decades at self-determination in creating and developing its indigenous firms provides an important comparator, especially now that it is often predicted that the next ‘Big N’ international firm could be a Chinese CPA firm.

We explore the history during the last 35 years or so of the relationships between the international firms, as they have themselves developed a changing identity, and the Chinese government’s initiatives to create, develop and regulate an indigenous profession, in the context of the translation into China of international accounting and auditing standards and the rapid growth in China’s own stock-markets and in its international trade and investment.

We draw on interviews we have conducted with senior representatives of audit firms, regulatory bodies and universities in the UK and in mainland China and Hong Kong. We explore the potential of the Chinese audit firms in the ‘2nd-tier’ international networks and among the large ’stand alone’ firms to rival the ‘Big 4’ in international reputation for quality.

Our analysis of these developments and of the current situation problematizes the prevailing identity stereotypes of both ‘Big 4’ and ‘indigenous’ firms and brings out important aspects of the ‘Chinese characteristics’, that contrast with the factors that have influenced international developments in the structure of the accounting and audit profession and in the shape of its regulation elsewhere, and that may now prove to be significant in the future development of accounting and auditing worldwide.

Keywords: Audit firms, China

JEL Classification: M41, N85, O16, P51

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Shuwen and Macve, Richard H., The Development of China's Auditing Profession: Globalizing Translation Meets Self-Determination in Identity Construction (January 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2562226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2562226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Cpa Chinese
2014) that 'We had 91 local partners among 149 in total last March at the start of the LLP. Most of local partners are Chinese CPAs. The others are mainly Hong Kong CPAs (as is the current managing partner)
PwC in Shanghai has recently told us
E
there has been a dispute over the US SEC's power to obtain working papers of Deloitte China's Shanghai office and over PCAOB
Accountancy
, p. 68 - 70 Posted: 2011-12
Crossref
Bdo China Shu 立信会计师事务所 Lìxìn Kuàijìshī Shìwùsuǒ , Lun
PAN Certified Public Accountants LLP
Load more
2 Citations
Camillo Lento , Wing Him Yeung
Earnings benchmarks, earnings management and future stock performance of Chinese listed companies reporting under ASBE-IFRS
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 502 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Camillo Lento , Wing Him Yeung
The role of the Big 4 and second-tier international networks in redeveloping China’s audit market
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 40 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
173,028
2 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies