Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Accounting in the Service of Policy Reform: Postal Rate Making, 1875-1926

Social Science Quarterly, 75 (June 1994): 284-99

Posted: 21 Feb 2015

Richard Kielbowicz

University of Washington

Date Written: February 21, 2015

Abstract

Long the nation’s largest public utility, the Post Office Department lacked a regular means of ascertaining the costs of providing different mail services until 1926. The paucity of cost data, however, did not deter Congress from setting postage rates down to a fraction of a cent or from devising sweeping policies governing the nation’s postal system. In setting rates, Congress had at best vague pricing theories in mind: value of service (mainly for letter mail), public service (the social utility of disseminating public information), and cost of service (advertising and parcels). Pressure to accurately gauge postal costs grew as the Post Office became a channel for different — and often competing — business services. In Lowi’s typology of policy arenas, setting postage became a regulatory function. The best way for one mail class to obtain or retain low rates by the late 1800s was to see that postage was raised for another.

Applied to postal policy, cost accounting revealed who benefited, and to what extent, from the federal government’s largest enterprise. Rival parties seized on cost accounting for the added leverage it gave them in postal policymaking. Mailers other than publishers insisted that their postage cross-subsidized the dissemination of newspapers and magazines. These mailers and their allies in Congress had grown weary of publishers’ repeated claims that cheap postage for periodicals was justified by the intangible benefits accruing to society; postal reformers now insisted on knowing the policy’s tangible costs. Almost all players in policymaking found some benefit in cost accounting. Postal administrators, long blamed for the Department’s deficits, saw cost ascertainment as a means to rebut critics and to improve their management of a far-flung bureaucracy. Private-sector accountants welcomed the opportunity to demonstrate their expertise in a public arena at a time when they were seeking popular support to extend their professional roles. The executive branch also encouraged cost accounting at the Post Office as part of its grander plans to overhaul the federal budgetary process. Some Progressive Era lawmakers hoped that the data adduced through cost accounting, a tool for the scientific management of public enterprises, would prompt reform of the postal subsidy long enjoyed by the press. Limitations in assigning joint costs, however, hindered reformers’ efforts, which left a sizable realm for political judgments.

Keywords: cost accounting, cross-subsidies, network economics, policy history, postal service, rate making

JEL Classification: E61, E65, H23, H4, H54, K23, L5, L9, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kielbowicz, Richard, Cost Accounting in the Service of Policy Reform: Postal Rate Making, 1875-1926 (February 21, 2015). Social Science Quarterly, 75 (June 1994): 284-99, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2568041
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies