Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Zealand Taxation and Taxation Law

in Xavier Cabannes (ed) Issues on Taxation in the South Pacific/Regards sur la Fiscalité dans le Pacifique Sud Comparative Law Journal of the Pacific Hors Série XVIII (2015) 99.

32 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2015

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: March 28, 2015

Abstract

This paper offers an historical, economic, constitutional, and contextual survey of the New Zealand tax system. The focus is on income tax, but the paper also briefly describes the “goods services tax”, the name given to the New Zealand value added tax. The focus is on domestic taxation, but there is a brief survey of international elements.

The paper considers several innovations that have spread from New Zealand to other jurisdictions: the general anti-avoidance rule, or “GAAR”, the imputation system for taxing companies and shareholders, and a fringe benefits tax collected from employers rather than employees. It explains two innovations that are yet to be adopted elsewhere, at least on a widespread basis: (i) the “accruals” rules, which cause most income and expenditure in respect of financial arrangements to be calculated on a yield to maturity basis, and (ii) certain pooling rules, which allow taxpayers to set off between themselves under-estimated and over- estimated tax (the tax being consequently under- or over-paid), thereby minimising interest otherwise payable to the Crown.

The paper demonstrates how the concept of income in New Zealand tax law fits into a model of a crude, or standard, idea of income, modified by rules that either mitigate the harshness of that concept or that prevent people from exploiting its vulnerabilities.

Keywords: New Zealand taxation, concept of income, tax legislation, income tax, GAAR, company taxation

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, New Zealand Taxation and Taxation Law (March 28, 2015). in Xavier Cabannes (ed) Issues on Taxation in the South Pacific/Regards sur la Fiscalité dans le Pacifique Sud Comparative Law Journal of the Pacific Hors Série XVIII (2015) 99., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2586601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Tax Administration Act , issue 3 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Tax Administration Act , issue 4 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Income Tax Act 2007 s YA 1, definition of "partner
Income Tax Act 2007 subpart HD
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,706
RANK
282,998
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies