Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funds Statements: The APB Was Twice Behind the Curve

Accounting Historians Journal, Forthcoming

15 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2015

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 10, 2015

Abstract

This paper discusses the circumstances in which the Accounting Principles Board issued Opinions 3 and 19, in 1963 and 1971, respectively, when the Board encouraged and then required companies to publish a statement of source and application of funds, known as the funds statement. In doing so, the Board both times lagged behind company practice and the views of influential organizations, including the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Keywords: funds statement, standard setting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., Funds Statements: The APB Was Twice Behind the Curve (April 10, 2015). Accounting Historians Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2593133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements and Supplements Posted: 1957
The Statement of Source and Application of Funds
Accounting Principles Board , volume 3 Posted: 1963
Accounting Principles , Board
Opinion 16
Business Combinations Posted: 1970
Accounting Principles , Board
Intangible Assets , volume 17 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies