Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Durham's American Tobacco Campus and North Carolina Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credits: A Preservation Success Story

A version of this paper is in the Sanford Journal of Public Policy, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2015

Daria Anichkova

Duke University School of Law, Students

Date Written: April 21, 2015

Abstract

When it first opened ten years ago, Durham’s American Tobacco Campus was the largest project of its kind in North Carolina history, enabled in part by state historic rehabilitation tax credits. Since then, the renovated former tobacco factory has catalyzed economic development and helped revive Durham’s stagnating downtown. In 2014, North Carolina lawmakers failed to renew the tax credits that helped to get the American Tobacco project off the ground — a poor decision both for the state’s economy and for historic preservation efforts. North Carolina’s historic rehabilitation tax credits should be renewed.

Keywords: Historic rehabilitation tax credits, American Tobacco Campus, Durham

Suggested Citation:

Anichkova, Daria, Durham's American Tobacco Campus and North Carolina Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credits: A Preservation Success Story (April 21, 2015). A version of this paper is in the Sanford Journal of Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2597193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
It Will Pay You to Preserve History, supra note 18
N C Gen , Stat
N C Gen , Stat
, volume 36 , p. 105 - 129
See supra note 55 and accompanying text
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,336
RANK
444,235
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies