Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Rail)Road to Lochner: Reproduction Cost and the Gilded Age Controversy on Rate Regulation

30 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2015 Last revised: 27 Apr 2015

Nicola Giocoli

University of Pisa - Department of Law

Date Written: April 25, 2015

Abstract

The controversy over railroad rates regulation represented a fundamental component of the jurisprudential trajectory that, culminating in Lochner v. New York, led to the era of so-called laissez faire constitutionalism. Constitutional protection of property required that regulation be such as to preserve the value of the regulated business. The paper builds on Siegel 1984 to argue that, by indicating in Smyth v. Ames (1898) reproduction cost as the correct technique to calculate the value of a railways, the Supreme Court retained its allegiance to the fundamental tenets of classical political economy even in a period of massive economic transformations, when classical economics was increasingly viewed as unable to capture the new reality of American industrial life.

Keywords: reproduction cost, historic cost, business valuation, railways economics, Lochner, laissez faire constitutionalism, regulation, Gilded Age

JEL Classification: B13, K23, L51, M21

Suggested Citation:

Giocoli, Nicola, The (Rail)Road to Lochner: Reproduction Cost and the Gilded Age Controversy on Rate Regulation (April 25, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2599032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2599032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Using the terminology of footnote 46@, the Court had rejected the method partly because, in that specific case , volume 229 Posted: 1984
Reversing a decision by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia in Bluefield Water Works v
Public Service Commission
Butler chastised the lower court for failing "to give proper consideration to the higher cost of construction in 1920 over that in 1915 and before the war" and "to give weight to cost of reproduction less depreciation on the basis of 1920 prices, or to the testimony of the company's valuation engineer, based on present and past costs of construction". As a consequence of these mistakes, that court had reached "a valuation considerably and materially less than would have been reached by a fair and just consideration of all the facts. The valuation cannot be sustained Posted: 1923
Edward C Bailly
The Legal Basis of Rate Regulation. Fair Return on the Value Employed for the Public Service
Columbia Law Review , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. 532 - 53 Posted: 1911
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,382
RANK
719,188
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

History of Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies