Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Chinese Accounting and Bookkeeping Before 1850: Insights from the Tŏng Tài Shēng Business Account Books (1798-1850)

(LSE) The London School of Economics and Political Science, Economic History Working Papers No. 220/2015

37 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015

Weipeng Yuan

Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) - Institute of Economics

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Debin Ma

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economic History

Date Written: May 14, 2015

Abstract

During the last two decades, there has been a surge of academic interest in how Chinese business activity was organised in the pre-modern era before China’s forced opening to the West in the mid-19th century, following the Opium Wars. In this paper we report our exploration into the original account books contained in the archive of Tŏng Tài Shēng (‘TTS’), which has recently been re-discovered and is the largest such archive examined so far. It yields important data about economic activity but our focus here is on the accounting practices it reveals. TTS was a substantial ‘grocery/merchant-banking’ business in northern China and its surviving books span a period from the late 18th century to the middle of the 19th century. They may therefore be regarded as representing primarily ‘indigenous’ Chinese bookkeeping practices before China’s forced opening in the mid-19th century. We set out the various kinds of accounts that were kept and what can be reconstructed of the interrelationships between daily running records and the various ‘ledger’ accounts for customers and suppliers (including loans at interest) and of the process by which financial statements were produced. We give illustrations of important accounts and also explain the specialist system of numerals used for accounting purposes, the Sūzhōu măzì [苏州码字]. Given the claims that have repeatedly been made for the importance of double-entry bookkeeping (DEB) for capitalism’s development in the West, our findings from a detailed examination of this extensive collection of original account books, when compared with Western accounting history, shed critical light on the nature of Chinese bookkeeping and business organization and on the larger questions about Chinese commercial culture and the path of development.

Keywords: Chinese accounting archives of late Qīng era, Chinese business history, Sūzhōu măzì, double-entry bookkeeping (DEB)

JEL Classification: B15, D20, M41, N85, R32, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Weipeng and Macve, Richard H. and Ma, Debin, The Development of Chinese Accounting and Bookkeeping Before 1850: Insights from the Tŏng Tài Shēng Business Account Books (1798-1850) (May 14, 2015). (LSE) The London School of Economics and Political Science, Economic History Working Papers No. 220/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Notes: This illustration is cut from part of a whole page of an account book (see top right corner for the full page) [The pencil marks in Arabic numerals are the modern annotations of someone working on the archive in the National Library
The name of a client: Zhang (张)
Long four qian six li' (长四钱六厘) with the numbers written in the Sūzhōu măzì system of numerals (see Appendix II)
2a. Pay out of Bao Silver (宝银) 36 fifty liăng (i.e. taels) 37 . 2b
It seems most of these Bao Silver sycees are given a serial number for internal check. The number of this piece of Bao Silver is 168
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
RANK
444,235
4 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Business History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies