Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whither the Concept of Income?

13 Pages Posted: 19 May 2015 Last revised: 20 May 2015

Shizuki Saito

University of Tokyo

Yoshitaka Fukui

Aoyama Gakuin University

Date Written: May 17, 2015

Abstract

Since the 1970s, the decision-usefulness has taken center stage and our attention has been concentrated on valuation of assets and liabilities instead of income measurement. The concept of income, once considered the gravitational center of accounting has lost its primacy and become a byproduct of the balance sheet derived from the measurement of assets and liabilities.

However, we have not been equipped with robust conceptual foundation supporting theoretically reasoned accounting measurement. It is not only theoretically but also practically important to renew our seemingly waned interest in the concept of income because ongoing reforms of accounting standards cannot be successfully implemented without a sound understanding of the concept of income.

Keywords: Accounting Measurement, Concept of Income, IASB

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Saito, Shizuki and Fukui, Yoshitaka, Whither the Concept of Income? (May 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2607234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2607234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,864
RANK
385,002
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies