Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transfer of Intangible Assets and Intangible Rights: Talmudic, Medieval Post-Talmudic and Islamic Legal Literatures

Oxford Journal of Law and Religion, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 May 2015

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: May 28, 2015

Abstract

This study explores how legal institutions have the potential to change economic development outcomes. Talmudic law ostensibly precludes the transfer (sale) of intangible assets and intangible rights thereby limiting an agricultural society’s ability to hedge risks and to raise financing. We argue that the Talmud itself found a fairly reasonable “rental contract” solution for enabling the transfer of intangible assets. We further maintain that the motivation for this solution arose out of economic pressure on rabbinical service providers by Jewish farmers in Roman-Palestine for whom Roman law arguably provided an alternative more sympathetic transfer model. The transfer of intangible rights proved to be a more difficult issue to resolve, however. Nevertheless, by the high and late middle ages, at least some post-Talmudic scholars suggested alternative mechanisms to effect the transfer of intangible assets/rights such as the Hitchayvut and the Situmta. The Situmta mechanism would have been particularly favorable to merchants involved in the transfer of intangibles on an ongoing basis. The relationship of these ideas to Islamic conceptions of intangibles, especially as it relates to Islamic commerce and commodity forward markets, is also explored.

Keywords: intangibles, transfer, Talmudic law, Roman Law, Islamic law

JEL Classification: B10;K10;Q10

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L., The Transfer of Intangible Assets and Intangible Rights: Talmudic, Medieval Post-Talmudic and Islamic Legal Literatures (May 28, 2015). Oxford Journal of Law and Religion, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2611694
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies