Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

72 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2001

Robert Libby

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: February 23, 2001

Abstract

This paper uses recent experimental studies of financial accounting to illustrate our view of how such experiments can be conducted successfully. Rather than provide an exhaustive review of the literature, we focus on how particular examples illustrate successful use of experiments to determine how, when and (ultimately) why important features of financial accounting settings influence behavior. We first describe how changes in views of market efficiency, reliance on the experimentalist?s comparative advantage, new theories, and a focus on key institutional features have allowed researchers to overcome the criticisms of earlier financial accounting experiments. We then describe how specific streams of experimental financial accounting research have addressed questions about financial communication between managers, auditors, information intermediaries, and investors, and indicate how future research can extend those streams. We focus particularly on (1) how managers and auditors report information, (2) how users of financial information interpret those reports, (3) how individual decisions affect market behavior, and (4) how strategic interactions between information reporters and users can affect market outcomes. Our examples include and integrate experiments that fall into both the "behavioral" and "experimental economics" literatures in accounting. Finally, we discuss how experiments can be designed to be both effective and efficient.

JEL Classification: M40, M49, G12, G14, C91, C92

Suggested Citation:

Libby, Robert and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Nelson, Mark W., Experimental Research in Financial Accounting (February 23, 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=261860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.261860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
173 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of Analysts' Overreaction/Underreaction to Earnings Information as an Explanation for Anomalous Stock Price Behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1208 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A R Abdel-Khalik , K El-Sheshi
Information Choice and Cue Utilization in an Experiment on Default Prediction
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 342 Posted: 1980
Crossref
L F Ackert , B K Church , M Shehata
An Experimental Examination of the Effects of Forecast Bias on Individuals' Use of Forecasted Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 42 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M J Anderson
A Comparative Analysis of Information and Evaluation Behavior of Professional and Non-Professional Financial Analysts. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 431 - 446 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
26,182
RANK
4,038
75 Citations
173 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

Effects of Comprehensive-Income Characteristics on Nonprofessional Investors' Judgments: The Role of Financial-Statement Format

By Laureen A. Maines and Linda S. Mcdaniel

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies