Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income According to Ordinary Concepts – The Jurisprudence of Justice Graham Hill

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 189-202, 2013

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 15/54

13 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2015

Chloe Burnett

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: June 18, 2015

Abstract

In 16 years on the Federal Court bench, Hill J made a major contribution to the entire field of tax jurisprudence. The concept of “ordinary income”, at the core of the income tax, was developed and clarified by Hill J in a number of judgments. All of Hill J’s significant judgments on ordinary income survived appeal to the High Court (or special leave to appeal). This article explores Hill J’s contribution to four main categories of ordinary income cases: (A) ordinary income from business; (B) ordinary income of individuals; (C) gambling cases and (D) the role of accounting evidence.

Keywords: Justice Graham Hill, income, ordinary income, ordinary concepts, judicial concept, business receipts, final court of appeal, profit-making scheme, gambling receipts, taxation of sport, accounting evidence, accounting concepts

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Burnett, Chloe, Income According to Ordinary Concepts – The Jurisprudence of Justice Graham Hill (June 18, 2015). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 189-202, 2013, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 15/54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2620129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,737
RANK
187,425
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies