Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Characteristics of Tax Policy and System in Kosovo: Tradition and Challenges (Years 1945-2008)

Academic Journal -- GodiÅ¡njak Pravnog Fakulteta u Sarajevu; Dec 2009, Vol. 52, p. 269

25 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2015

Bedri Peci

University of Prishtina - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

Tax system and tax policy in Kosovo throughout its development had followed many of the changes emerging from changes in political and social-economic regulations in Kosovo (initially as the constituent of federal system and later by the deployment of UNMIK Administration). First phase had experienced longer time-period including the period from 1945 until the dissolution of former Yugoslavia in ‘90s. The second phase includes years from ‘90s up to the deployment of UNMIK in 1999, and the third phase from 1999 until the Declaration of Independence on 17.02.2008. The common features for all three phases of evolution of tax system and policy are: Kosovo was missing of its full sovereignty in order to build its individual tax system and policies designed for its economic development; tax system and policy had only fiscal role while the indirect taxes dominated in the tax revenue schemes. At present, after the Declaration of Independence, it is of the paramount importance that Kosovo turns to redressing of tax policy and system by balancing direct and indirect taxes, moreover deliberating economic and social functions from tax system and tax policy.

Keywords: tax system, tax policy, fiscal sovereignty, fiscal function, direct tax, indirect tax

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Peci, Bedri, Some Characteristics of Tax Policy and System in Kosovo: Tradition and Challenges (Years 1945-2008) (September 1, 2009). Academic Journal -- GodiÅ¡njak Pravnog Fakulteta u Sarajevu; Dec 2009, Vol. 52, p. 269, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Agreement on adjustment of tax system
• Annual Statistical report of Yugoslavia Posted: 1989
Crossref
• Basic Law on Taxes and Citizens' Contributions
Crossref
Basic Law on Turnover Tax
Official Gazette of SFRY
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
819,727
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies