Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organising the Accounting Profession: A Theoretical and Historical Examination of the Development of the Major Accountancy Bodies in the United Kingdom (UK)

12 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2015

Cordelia Omodero

Medonice Consulting and Research Institute

Date Written: July 21, 2015

Abstract

The study seeks to examine the topic -- Organising the Accounting Profession: A Theoretical and Historical Examination of the Development of the Major Accountancy Bodies in The United Kingdom (UK). In advancing the ‘professionalising’ claims, the UK accountancy bodies emphasize that their members have command of practical and theoretical culture, engage in ethical conduct, serve the public interest and act in a socially responsible way. However, such claims are routinely problematised by scandals which highlight the highly partisan role of accounting and accountants and failures of accounting education. Rather than undertaking a radical review of accounting education, the professional bodies seek to rebuild confidence in accounting and their jurisdictions by (re)affirming that accounting education is or will be devoted to producing reflective accountants through educational processes focused on sound education, principles, ethics, professional skepticism, lifelong learning opportunities, distinguishing between private and public interest and serving the public interest. These promises presuppose that students on professional accounting courses are exposed to such values. To advance the debate, this paper examines a number of financial accounting, auditing and management accounting books and finds that beyond a technical and instrumental view of accounting, there is little discussion of theories, principles, ethics, public interest, globalization, scandals or social responsibility to produce socially reflective accountants.

Keywords: Scandals, Professional Accountancy , Ethics, Social, Responsibility, Public Interest.

Suggested Citation:

Omodero, Cordelia, Organising the Accounting Profession: A Theoretical and Historical Examination of the Development of the Major Accountancy Bodies in the United Kingdom (UK) (July 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2633982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2633982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
B J. ; W W Bledstein , Norton , Co , R ; T C Brown , E C Jack
The Culture of Professionalism
A History of Accounting and Accountants Posted: 1905
S Burchell , C Clubb , A Hopwood , J Hughes , J Nahapiet
The Roles of Accounting in Organisations and Society
Accounting, Organisations and Society , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1980
Crossref
E H Carr
What is History? Posted: 1987
A Carr-Saunders , P A Wilson
The Professions Posted: 1933
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
RANK
314,322
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies