Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Accounting for War: Contracting Procedures and Cost-Plus Pricing in WWI Industrial Mobilization in Italy

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2015

Gloria Vollmers

Maine Business School

Valerio Antonelli

University of Salerno

Roberto Rossi

University of Naples Federico II; - Centre for Studies in Economics and Finance (CSEF)

Raffaele D'Alessio

University of Salerno

Date Written: July 15, 2015

Abstract

The aim of the paper is to explore the role played by cost accounting in Italy’s Industrial Mobilization System and in the largest firm manufacturing weaponry, Ansaldo of Genoa, during WWI. While in other countries such as the UK and the US, efficiency in buying and managing war material was an important part of military strategy, in Italy, various factors impeded it. The paper focuses on contracting procedures adopted by the Ministry of War and Ministry of Munitions and looks at the cost accounting practices in Ansaldo to see how costs were determined and how prices were set. We found a paradox. On the one hand, despite knowledge of costing, the government did not impose cost controls on the producers of war material, nor on their profit rates. On the other hand, examining Ansaldo’s cost sheets we discover they underestimated their production costs leading the firm to losses despite its favorable political position. The paper contributes to the theoretical debate about the relationships between accounting and war in the Italian context where lobbying, collusion, bribery, and private interests dominated the administrative behavior of public and private actors instead of efficiency, accountability and honesty.

Keywords: Ansaldo, War, Industrial Mobilization, Defense contracting

Suggested Citation:

Vollmers, Gloria and Antonelli, Valerio and Rossi, Roberto and D'Alessio, Raffaele, Cost Accounting for War: Contracting Procedures and Cost-Plus Pricing in WWI Industrial Mobilization in Italy (July 15, 2015). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
Archivio centrale dello stato
Piazzale degli Archivi
Archivio centrale dello stato
Archivio centrale dello stato
Archivio Storico Della Camera Dei Deputati -Piazza , S Macuto
Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on War Expenses, b. 107. Corrispondenza in arrivo alla società Ansaldo, stabilimento di costruzione delle artiglierie di Sampierdarena, proveniente da diverse società di navigazione, riguardante i noli di trasporto dell'acciaio e delle materie prime durante il periodo bellico, agosto-ottobre 1922. Chamber of Deputies (1922d). Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on War Expenses, b. 107. Corrispondenza fra il Ministero della Marina e 1'Ansaldo circa i cosiddetti 'complessi da 102/45' e i programmi di armamento, maggio-giugno 1918; Lettera della Marina all'Ansaldo circa i 'tubi anima' da 102/45
October 15 th : b. 87 f. 670. Chamber of Deputies , volume 16 , p. 3476 - 3483 Posted: 1913
Load more
3 Citations
Taichi Kimura , Takahiro Morimitsu
Government Procurement Contract Design with Unobservable Productivity and Moral Hazard
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming · 34 Pages · Posted: 2 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 25 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 143
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Jones , Andrea Melis
The Continuity of the Board of Statutory Auditors Across Social, Economic and Political Institutional Changes
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 11 May 2020 · Downloads: 67
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gillian McAllister , Nicole Sutton , David Andrew Brown , Olivia Rawlings-Way , Deborah Parker , Rachael Lewis , Jiali Yin , Bronwen Harrison
Using Public Inquiries as a Data Source for Accounting Research: A Systematic Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 84 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
472,944
3 Citations
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies