Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framing the Magdalen: Sentimental Narratives and Impression Management in Charity Annual Reporting

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 28 Jul 2015

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Jacqueline Pierpoint

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 28, 2015

Abstract

We analyse the annual report narratives, between 1801 and 1914, of the Edinburgh Magdalen Asylum, a reformatory for 'fallen' women. We aim to provide new insights by combining interdisciplinary perspectives: the work of Erving Goffman on stigma, asylums, impression management and framing, and writings on literary genres, in particular eighteenth and nineteenth century fiction. We also contribute to research on the annual report as source material for social history and to accounting histories of women. We find that the narratives were employed to discharge the directors’ accountability, by portraying their work and the asylum as socially and economically useful, accounting for the inmates in their charge, securing funding, and finding suitable employment for inmates after release. The narratives and their subjects were framed in accordance with conventions of sentimental novels and recurring literary plot structures. By creating a dichotomy between victims of seduction and 'hardened' prostitutes, the directors could manage expectations: not all Magdalens could be saved. On the other hand, this allowed the directors to advertise their 'product' in the market for domestic labour: Case histories and personal narratives were presented to show that the remorseful Magdalen could become a docile domestic servant and productive citizen.

Keywords: accounting history, narratives, literature, impression management, charities

JEL Classification: M40, N00

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Lisa and Pierpoint, Jacqueline, Framing the Magdalen: Sentimental Narratives and Impression Management in Charity Annual Reporting (July 28, 2015). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636753
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,043
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies