Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Land Tax Without Land and Land Without Land Tax: A History of Land Tax in China

John Tiley (ed.), Studies in the History of Tax Law, Vol 6, 2013

Posted: 19 Aug 2015

Yan Xu

University of New South Wales

Date Written: July 2013

Abstract

Land taxation in China dates from the earliest periods of Chinese civilisation and until relatively recently has been the bedrock of its public finance system. This remarkably long history of land taxation is unique. This chapter considers how the development of land tax systems in China has a continuing relevance for Chinese public finance by demonstrating how various versions of the land tax fitted into the development of the general political and legal systems of the time. It shows that the development of the land tax systems had been concomitant with changes in the economic foundations and changes in the fortune of dynasties over the long history. Some patterns re-emerge over the millennia. The chapter examines the implications of the long history of land taxation in China for the political and legal system today in general and for the tax system in particular. It suggests that current land tax reforms will be able to break the historical pattern of effective reform disintegrating over time only if the lessons of history have been understood.

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Yan, Land Tax Without Land and Land Without Land Tax: A History of Land Tax in China (July 2013). John Tiley (ed.), Studies in the History of Tax Law, Vol 6, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2646377
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies