Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk in Accounting

14 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2015

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: August 5, 2015

Abstract

Risk and uncertainty are inherent in the environment and functions of accounting. Accounting reports, systems, norms, and rules help people decide, and also determine how they decide in such environment. Diverse normative theories and descriptions of coping with risk and uncertainty yield different implications for accounting. Chambers was an articulate, forceful, and celebrated proponent of market values, while Ijiri did the same for historical costs. Elements of accounting theory that diverge in their emphases on historical cost versus market values can be linked to the divergence in the theories of risk and decision making. This largely unrecognized link between the conflicting accounting theories and their respective implicit assumptions about risky decisions may help us reconcile, understand and progress beyond the accounting debates of the past century.

Keywords: Chambers, risk and uncertainty, financial reporting, accounting, information for decisions

JEL Classification: D81, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Risk in Accounting (August 5, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2648474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2648474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Kenneth J Arrow
Social choice and individual values Posted: 1951
Sudipta Basu , John Dickhaut , Gary Hecht , Kristy L. Towry , Gregory B. Waymire
Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity
Pages: 60 Posted: 8 Nov 2007 Last revised: 22 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Basu , M Kirk , G Waymire
Memory, transaction records, and The Wealth of Nations. Accounting
Organizations, and Society , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 895 - 917 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Daniel Bernoulli
Exposition of a New Theory on the Measurement of Risk
trans. Louise Sommer , volume 22 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 1738
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
167,682
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies