Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting History: Definition and Relevance

11 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2015

Amah Ogbonnaya

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

Date Written: August 25, 2015

Abstract

This work traces the history of accounting and how merchants developed a system of keeping record using what is known as the Bollac. The stages of development of accounting, from the Mesopotamia 3500 B.C to the 21st century accounting. This study also talked about the Father of Accounting – Luca Pacioli and his contributions in the development of double entry bookkeeping and finally the relevance of accounting history to today’s world.

Keywords: Accounting History, Bollac, Double Entry Bookkeeping, Mesopotamia, Luca Pacioli, keeping record

Suggested Citation:

Ogbonnaya, Amah, Accounting History: Definition and Relevance (August 25, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2650396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2650396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
T S Hamenow
Reflection on History and Histories, winconis; the University of Posted: 1987
I D Parker
Historiography for the New Millennium: Adventures Accounting and Management, Accounting History , volume 4 Posted: 1999
Crossref
I D Parker
Presenting the Past: Perspective on Time for Accounting History
Accounting Business and Financial History , volume 14 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Stanford
An Introduction to Philosophy of History Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,045
RANK
3,550
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies