Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elmer G. Beamer and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants: The Pursuit of a Cognitive Standard for the Accounting Profession

Accounting History, Vol. 23, No. 1-2, pp. 71-92, 2018

Posted: 30 Aug 2015 Last revised: 27 Mar 2019

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Vaughan S. Radcliffe

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Mitchell Stein

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Date Written: August 29, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates Elmer G. Beamer’s (1909-2000) activities at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants during a thirty-year period beginning in the 1950s, using a theoretical lens from the sociology of professions literature. Beamer was born in Cleveland, Ohio, in 1909 and trained as an accountant with Haskins & Sells after graduating from high school. He stayed with the same firm throughout his career and rose to the position of partner. While in public practice, Beamer gave unselfishly of his time to the profession. As a member of the AICPA, Beamer chaired the Committee on the Common Body of Knowledge of CPAs, Committee on Education and Experience Requirements, and the Ad Hoc Committee on Continuing Education. The goal of the three committees was to establish a common body of knowledge for accountants in public practice. Beamer’s efforts resulted in the 150 credit-hour requirements for CPAs and the mandate for yearly continuing professional education for accountants to maintain an active CPA license in the United States. The paper draws on archival material from the Elmer G. Beamer Papers Collection at the University of Florida. The collection contains over 500 items of Beamer’s personal correspondence, committee memorandums, and writings. The paper concludes with a discussion of the empirical narrative and Beamer’s role in the larger context of the professionalization of the accounting discipline in the U.S.

Keywords: Beamer Committee, 150 credit-hour requirement, accounting education, accounting history, AAA, AICPA, biography, continuing education requirement, CPA license, Elmer G. Beamer, Haskins & Sells

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel and Racliffe, Vaughan S. and Stein, Mitchell, Elmer G. Beamer and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants: The Pursuit of a Cognitive Standard for the Accounting Profession (August 29, 2015). Accounting History, Vol. 23, No. 1-2, pp. 71-92, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2653061 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2653061
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies