Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditing in Mid-Nineteenth Century Railroad Companies: Comparing the Practices of American and British Railroads

20 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2015

Mitsunori Kasukabe

Hokkaido University - Graduate School of Economics & Business Administration

Chie Sawanobori

Osaka Sangyo University

Motohiro Aihara

Hokkaido University

Date Written: September 2, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines internal auditing practices in American and British railroad companies in the mid-nineteenth century. It is a historical/empirical study based on annual reports, minutes and brochures released by those companies. Previous studies on internal auditing have not focused on its history in detail, especially on mid-nineteenth century practices. Some railroad companies had already started using internal auditors by the late 1850s. Their appointment may have been prompted by geographical expansion, the growing scope of operations, increased use of accounting and statistics to control businesses, or the need to detect fraud. This study addresses the following questions as we present the historical evidence: Who performed the audits? What was audited? How was it audited?

Keywords: internal audit, traveling auditor, railway accounting

JEL Classification: M41, N80, N81, N83

Suggested Citation:

Kasukabe, Mitsunori and Sawanobori, Chie and Aihara, Motohiro, Internal Auditing in Mid-Nineteenth Century Railroad Companies: Comparing the Practices of American and British Railroads (September 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2655258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
W W Bigg , J O Davies
Internal auditing Posted: 1953
Maine Boston , Railroad
Report of the directors of the Boston and Maine Railroad, to the stockholders Posted: 1856-09-10
Crossref
Maine Boston , Railroad
Report of the directors of the Boston and Maine Railroad to the stockholders Posted: 1859
Crossref
Maine Boston , Railroad
Report of the directors of the Boston and Maine Railroad to the stockholders Posted: 1860
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
403,275
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies