Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Islamic Banking in Pakistan: A History of Emergent Accountability and Regulation

Rammal, H. G. and Parker, L. D. (2013), "Islamic banking in Pakistan: A history of emergent accountability and regulation", Accounting History, Vol. 18 No. 1, pp. 5-29.

48 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2015

Hussain Gulzar Rammal

University of Adelaide - Business School

Lee D. Parker

RMIT University

Date Written: September 25, 2015

Abstract

This study presents a history of the Islamic banking sector, its accountability and regulation in Pakistan, set in its contexts of the rise of Islamic banking internationally in a global finance marketplace alongside the localised Islamization of Pakistan’s economy. The historical analysis is informed by the Economic Theory of the State and the principles of Islamic Theocracy, and examines the events leading to the establishment of the Islamic banking system in Pakistan, government accountability and regulatory strategies and the market response. Its findings reveal the complexity of attempts to reform Pakistan’s banking sector into a purely Islamic based system and the contests between government, central bank and religious authorities for the sector’s accountability, regulation and control. The re-emergence of a dual banking system and its accountability and regulation for both economic management and theocratic purposes illustrates the ongoing compromise and accommodation between national religious culture and a global financial environment.

Keywords: accounting, accountability and regulation, banking and finance, Islamic banking, Pakistan, State Bank of Pakistan, Nationalization, theocracy

Suggested Citation:

Rammal, Hussain Gulzar and Parker, Lee D., Islamic Banking in Pakistan: A History of Emergent Accountability and Regulation (September 25, 2015). Rammal, H. G. and Parker, L. D. (2013), "Islamic banking in Pakistan: A history of emergent accountability and regulation", Accounting History, Vol. 18 No. 1, pp. 5-29., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
J Barzun , H F Graff
The Modern Researcher Posted: 1985
W J Baumol
Welfare Economics and the Theory of the State Posted: 1965
Crossref
A G Bedeian
Exploring the Past
Journal of Management History , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 15 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J K Bluntschli
1885) The Theory of the State
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
216,737
1 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies