Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Work of the Special Committee on Research Program

41 Pages Posted: 8 May 2001

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: Undated

Abstract

This article begins by recounting the circumstances that led to the AICPA's decision in 1957 to appoint a special committee to recommend a stronger research program to support the process of establishing accounting principles. It then proceeds to examine in considerable depth the committees' sometimes difficult deliberations that eventually led to a unanimous report, in which it recommended the creation of an Accounting Principles Board and an enlarged accounting research division within the Institute. In the course of the article, the author brings out the strong philosophical differences among several of the Big Eight accounting firms that had been impeding the work of the Committee on Accounting Procedure and that also intruded into the special committee?s deliberations.

Keywords: Standard setting; Accounting Principles Board; Financial reporting; Accounting history

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The Work of the Special Committee on Research Program (Undated). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=266681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.266681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Accounting Research and Terminology Bulletins Posted: 1961
Crossref
Reporting the Financial Effects of Price-Level Changes
Accounting Research Study , issue 6 Posted: 1963
Herman W Bevis
Corporate Financial Reporting in a Competitive Economy Posted: 1965
Carman G Blough
Remarks in The American Institute of Accountants (1887-1937): Fiftieth Anniversary Celebration 1937 (American Institute of Accountants) , p. 188 - 204 Posted: 1938
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,818
RANK
299,879
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Mexico (Chapter 2 of 'Forging Accounting Principles in Five Countries: A History and an Analysis of Trends')

By Stephen A. Zeff

Canada (Chapter 4 of 'Forging Accounting Principles in Five Countries: A History and an Analysis of Trends')

By Stephen A. Zeff

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies