Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
J.L. Ilsley and the Transition to the Post-War Tax System: 1943-1946

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 1, 2015, p. 1

Posted: 23 Oct 2015

Colin Campbell

University of Western Ontario

Date Written: October 22, 2015

Abstract

By 1943, the Canadian government had turned its attention from financing the war effort to planning and financing post-war reconstruction, including the possible adoption of several major social welfare programs. This involved continuation of the wartime reliance on the expanded personal and corporation income taxes and making new arrangements with the provinces for the continuance or modification of the tax rental agreements reached in 1941. As minister of finance, J.L. Ilsley had primary responsibility for and led this effort. While the government's proposals met only partial acceptance at the extended 1945-46 Dominion-Provincial Conference, the transformation of the Canadian tax system effected by 1943 remained substantially intact.

Keywords: History; federal-provincial; tax systems; tax policy; economic policy; social policy.

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, Colin, J.L. Ilsley and the Transition to the Post-War Tax System: 1943-1946 (October 22, 2015). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 1, 2015, p. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678477
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies