Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rhetoric and Reality of Auditor Independence: An Historical Analysis

Posted: 14 Nov 2015

John Richard Edwards

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School, Accounting and Business History Research Group

Brian West

Federation University Australia

Date Written: October 21, 2015

Abstract

Watts and Zimmerman (1979, 1986) portray the external audit as a natural consequence of an agency model where shareholders demand reliable information and managers respond by arranging for an independent audit to make credible the financial statements whose contents they control. Independent, professional auditors are assigned a central role in this process because, according to the UK Auditing Practices Board (2010, 9), they are “objective and provide impartial opinions unaffected by bias, prejudice, compromise and conflicts of interest”. In recent decades, professional auditors have been the subject of criticism for both lack of independence and susceptibility to conflicts of interest, and the purpose of this paper is to provide an historical perspective for these contemporary concerns by revealing that such failings date from the naissance of the professional audit in mid-nineteenth century Britain. Further, it is contended that such problems were habitually masked by a rhetorical discourse. This notion of rhetoric – the use of language as a means to persuade – provides the theoretical guidance for the paper, with the nineteenth century notion of a “continuous audit” identified as an exemplar of auditing rhetoric. Similarly, while the professionalization project mounted by qualifying associations in the late-nineteenth century successfully nurtured the idea of accountants as disinterested professional gentlemen, this claim to independence from management is also exposed as largely rhetorical. The reality of the directors rather than the shareholders as the true client continued and publicly reasserted itself in the late-twentieth century as a self-confident occupational group prioritised the commercial over the professional.

Keywords: audit independence, continuous audit, auditing history, rhetoric

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, John Richard and West, Brian, The Rhetoric and Reality of Auditor Independence: An Historical Analysis (October 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689977
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies