Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tone-at-the-Top Lessons from Abrahamic Justice

47 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2015 Last revised: 4 May 2017

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Hershey H. Friedman

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business; CUNY Brooklyn College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 26, 2017

Abstract

Abraham’s “leadership by example” provides a template for business leaders to implement a tone at the top based on a balance of Tzedek (righteousness) and Mishpat (legal judgement). The former expresses the generosity of spirit required of leaders, while the latter expresses the sound judgement in conformity with both ethics and enacted law. We relate the two constructs to several contemporary theories of justice and jurisprudence. We also relate the development of Abrahamic Justice in the Jewish tradition from antiquity through Maimonides in the middle ages. We draw insight from this tradition to answer a contemporary business ethics question: Do corporate managers violate their fiduciary duty to shareholders if they refuse to engage in legal tax avoidance?

Keywords: Abrahamic Justice, civil religion, corporate tax avoidance, distributive justice, integrated reporting, justice as fairness, Maimonides, spirit of the law

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov and Friedman, Hershey H., Tone-at-the-Top Lessons from Abrahamic Justice (April 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2692363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
R Alter
The five books of Moses Posted: 2004
Inc Apple
A Message to the Apple Community in Europe Posted: 2016-08-30
Aristotle
Nicomachean Ethics, translated by W.D. Ross. The Internet Classics Archives
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The Relation between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Multinational Firms Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,367
RANK
627,303
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies