Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud and Financial Scandals: A Historical Analysis of Opportunity and Impediment

Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-01

30 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2015 Last revised: 2 Dec 2015

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 24, 2015

Abstract

The paper presents a conceptual framework of financial fraud based on the historical interaction of opportunity and impediment. In the long run the character of opportunity is determined by the technical characteristics of assets and their unique, unknowable or unverifiable features. Impediment is promoted by consensus about the real value of assets, such that through active governance processes, fraudulent deviations from real value can be easily monitored. Active governance requires individuals in positions of responsibility to exercise a duty of care beyond merely being honest themselves. Taking a long run historical perspective and reviewing a selection of British financial frauds and scandals, from the South Sea Bubble to the Global Financial Crisis, the paper notes the periodic occurrence of waves of opportunity and the evolutionary response of passive governance mechanisms.

Keywords: Financial fraud, South Sea Bubble, Railway Mania, Royal Mail Steam Packet, Slater Walker, Polly Peck, Global Financial Crisis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, N23, N24, N83, N84

Suggested Citation:

Toms, Steve, Fraud and Financial Scandals: A Historical Analysis of Opportunity and Impediment (November 24, 2015). Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2694962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
G Acheson , J Turner
The Death Blow to Unlimited Liability in Victorian Britain: The City of Glasgow Failure'
Explorations in Economic History , volume 45 , p. 235 - 53 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Ackrill , L Hannah
Barclays: The Business of Banking , p. 1690 - 1996 Posted: 2001
G A Akerlof
The Market for" lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
P Augur
The Greed Merchants: How the Investment Banks played the Free Market Game Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,975
RANK
115,106
5 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies