Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting for Varieties of Capitalism: Does A Single Set of Global Standards Fit for All?

The Euroatlantic Union Review, Vol. 2 No. 1/2015

24 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2015 Last revised: 5 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

Financial reporting is a powerful practice that shapes social and economic processes. This paper argues that there are fundamental reasons against current attempts to establish a single set of global financial reporting standards, moreover tailored to the needs of stock market-based capitalism.

Evidence shows that there exists more than one way of doing business. Social market economy, for instance, is one of the founding principles of the European Union. Standardizing financial reporting onto a single economic model could therefore harm alternative forms of capitalism. It is at time of great uncertainty and change that the advantages of variety can be appreciated. Consistent with this view, this paper claims that the optimal design of financial reporting regulation should depend on the specific institutional characteristics of the economic and political systems.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Varieties of Capitalism, European Union

JEL Classification: M40, P00, K00

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, Financial Reporting for Varieties of Capitalism: Does A Single Set of Global Standards Fit for All? (January 1, 2015). The Euroatlantic Union Review, Vol. 2 No. 1/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
M Albert
Capitalism against Capitalism Posted: 1993
F Allen , E Carletti
Should financial institutions mark to market?
Banque de France, Financial Stability Review , issue 12 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2008
Franklin Allen , Elena Carletti , Robert S. Marquez
Stakeholder Capitalism, Corporate Governance and Firm Value
EFA 2007 Ljubljana Meetings Paper, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 190/2007, Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper #09-28 Pages: 45 Posted: 5 Mar 2007 Last revised: 6 Dec 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F Allen , E Carletti , A Babus
Financial crises: theory and evidence
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 1 , p. 97 - 116 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
880,951
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Political Economy: Investment & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies