Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking Forward at 100 Years: Where Next for the Income Tax?

11 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2015

Miranda Stewart

University of Melbourne - Law School; New York University School of Law; Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Date Written: December 14, 2015

Abstract

In 2015, Australia’s Commonwealth income tax reached its first century. The Income Tax Assessment Act No. 34 of 1915 and accompanying Income Tax Act No. 41 of 1915 were assented to on 13 September 1915, enacted “by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia” and effective for the fiscal year commencing 1 July 1915.

The Tax and Transfer Policy Institute at the Crawford School of Public Policy, Australian National University, held a conference to commemorate the centenary of the federal income tax. The papers in this Special Issue were among those presented at the conference. They include papers discussing aspects of the history and development of the income tax and papers analysing policy goals and future reform.

Suggested Citation:

Stewart, Miranda, Looking Forward at 100 Years: Where Next for the Income Tax? (December 14, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2704644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies