Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Giuseppe Cerboni: General Accountant of the State

7 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2017

Danilo Stentella

University of Siena - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Giuseppe Cerboni (1827-1917) in 1861 stated as an accountant with his report on the military condition of Tuscany, proposing a model of "returns of accounts", arousing particular interest and broad consensus. Years of study and experience led him to the development of new accounting concepts, that he transposed in a succession of works among which "Accounting Science" and "Double Entry synoptic." This system of accounts, for which Tommaseo suggested the name Logismografia, consisted in keeping two sets of parallel scriptures which considered each transaction in two different ways, in one was reported the prediction of the annual budget, in the other the relationship with inventory sheet.

Keywords: public accounting, accounting, accountability

Suggested Citation:

Stentella, Danilo, Giuseppe Cerboni: General Accountant of the State (2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Aldo Amaduzzi
Aziende di erogazione. Primi problemi di organizzazione Posted: 1936
Aldo Amaduzzi , Giuseppe Di , Cerboni
Posted: 2007
Giuseppe Cerboni , &apos; Sull , Della , Di Stato
Posted: 1866
Giuseppe Cerboni , Primi
Posted: 1873
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
841,621
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies