Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and the Forgotten Classes - A Snapshot of History

58 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2016

John Passant

Australian National University (ANU), College of Arts and Social Sciences, School of Politics & International Relations, Students

Date Written: January 24, 2016

Abstract

Peasants, workers and other ordinary people have shaped our world. In this paper I look at their mass struggles over tax, often escalating into broader rebellions, revolts and revolutions against the status quo. This can start as battles within the elite, and end as solutions within the elite. Or it can be a revolt from below, which the elite co-opt or repress or which goes a step further with the lower classes overthrowing the old way of doing things and sweeping aside the impediments to a new economic system, i.e. a social revolution. In looking at the role of peasants, workers and other often forgotten people in the tax and then wider rebellions and revolutions over the last millennium we can I hope discern the long slow march of history to democracy. This is a potted history of forgotten people in the story of tax over the last millennium. There are many more examples which I hope others, inspired by my tentative steps, explore. The long slow march to political and economic democracy we see in this analysis may be side-tracked at the moment. In Australia and other countries social democracy has been the main side-tracker. Although the old mole of class struggle is not visible at the moment we can be sure it is burrowing away to claw its way to the surface, often sparked to do so by the taxes of the elite.

Keywords: tax; war; revolution; democracy; exploited classes

JEL Classification: N40; B14

Suggested Citation:

Passant, John, Tax and the Forgotten Classes - A Snapshot of History (January 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2721266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
O&apos; Mark , Brien
Crossref
Fagan Hilton
Ibid
Crossref
O&apos; Mark , Brien
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
724,701
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies