Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability Mechanisms for Awqaf Institutions: Lessons Learnt from the History

Journal of King Abdulaziz University, Islamic Economics, Vol 29 No 1, pp.41-54, 2016

14 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2016 Last revised: 16 Feb 2016

Hidayatul Ihsan

Politeknik Negeri Padang, Indonesia

Eliyanora

Padang State Polytechnic

Yossi Septriani

Padang State Polytechnic

Date Written: January 5, 2016

Abstract

The last few years have witnessed the revitalisation of waqf institutions around the world. There is a growing awareness concerning the need for waqf revival in order to create a better society. The Muslim communities have realized that waqf possesses the potential to be an effective system for poverty eradication. Along with the revival of this historic institution, there is a call for greater accountability of the trustee in managing waqf. Despite the unprecedented call for accountability of waqf institutions, studies regarding waqf accountability are limited. Few attempts actually have been made to address accountability issue in waqf. However, most of the previous studies only focused on accounting. In fact, accountability is broader than that. This paper, therefore, aims to seek evidence as to how accountability in awqaf should be practised. In so doing, this paper explores and reviews the existing studies on waqf, particularly how accountability had been practised in the history of waqf.

Keywords: Mechanisms of accountability, waqf, mutawallī, waqf history

JEL Classification: E21, E22, E23

Suggested Citation:

Ihsan, Hidayatul and , Eliyanora and Septriani, Yossi, Accountability Mechanisms for Awqaf Institutions: Lessons Learnt from the History (January 5, 2016). Journal of King Abdulaziz University, Islamic Economics, Vol 29 No 1, pp.41-54, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Qatar: Publications of presidency of Islamic courts and affairs state of Qatar
The Holy Qur'ān Posted: 1946
C Toruman , B Tuncsiper , S Yilmaz
August) Cash awqāf in the Ottomans as philanthropic foundation and their accounting practices
Accounting History International Conference: "Accounting in other places Posted: 2007
R Van Leeuwen
Waqfs and urban structures. The case of Ottoman Damascus Posted: 1999
S Velayutham , M H B Perera
The influence of emotions and culture on accountability and governance. Corporate governance , volume 4 , p. 52 - 64 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
446,627
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Philosophy of Religion eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies