Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Firm and Corporative Governmentality. From the Perspective of Foucault

Int. J. Economics and Accounting, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2014

25 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2016

Eduardo Rivera Vicencio

Autonomous University of Barcelona - Faculty of Economics and Business Studies

Date Written: December 10, 2014

Abstract

The fundamental base of this paper is the work of Michel Foucault and specifically during the period 1978-1979 at the Collège de France (The Birth of Biopolitics). The paper describes the relationship of power in institutional firms from the point of view of archaeological and genealogical methods, such as discourse, discipline, ethics and governmentality. Through this description, the characteristics of a new form of government – corporate governmentality – are determined and how they in turn shape the current homo economicus, the subject of law and economics in firms. At the same time, the paper describes how there has been a misappropriation of rents over time, how it is shaping a block of countries to appropriate the rents of others through large firms, and how these large corporations are imposing their objectives on states and international organisations, generating government corporations globally or what is described in this paper, as the characteristics of corporate governmentality.

Keywords: the firm; Foucault; corporate governmentality; power; ethics; rent appropriation; discourse; discipline; neo-liberalism; profit maximisation

Suggested Citation:

Rivera Vicencio, Eduardo, The Firm and Corporative Governmentality. From the Perspective of Foucault (December 10, 2014). Int. J. Economics and Accounting, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R H Coase
The nature of the firm
Economica , volume 4 , issue 16 , p. 368 - 405 Posted: 1937
Crossref
M Foucault
Dits et ecrits , volume 4 , p. 1977 - 1978 Posted: 1980
M Foucault
Nacimiento de la Biopolítica: curso en el Collège de France: 1978-1979 Posted: 2007
E Rivera Vicencio
Foucault: his influence over accounting and management research
Int. J. Critical Accounting , volume 4 , issue 6 , p. 728 - 756 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,341
RANK
490,153
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies