Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foucault: His Influence Over Accounting and Management Research. Building of a Map of Foucault's Approach

International Journal of Critical Accounting, 2012

29 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2016

Eduardo Rivera Vicencio

Autonomous University of Barcelona - Faculty of Economics and Business Studies

Date Written: December 10, 2012

Abstract

The aim of this work is to build a map of Foucault’s approach. To achieve this objective, this work is focused on a broad revision and analysis of accounting and various publications. This work also includes a research on Foucault’s work so as to identify and compare the various manifestations of power relationships considered by different researchers. Once these manifestations of power as discourse, discipline, ethics, government, among others, have been identified, the specific influence of each one over accounting and management is determined as an attempt to provide a general.

Keywords: Foucault; power relationships; accounting; management; environment; power; knowledge-power; archaeological and genealogical methodology; discourse; discipline; ethics; governmentality

Suggested Citation:

Rivera Vicencio, Eduardo, Foucault: His Influence Over Accounting and Management Research. Building of a Map of Foucault's Approach (December 10, 2012). International Journal of Critical Accounting, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
A Abraham , H Deo
A Foucauldian approach to founder's influence in a non-profit organization
The Business Review , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 39 - 44 Posted: 2006
I Al-Amoudi
Redrawing Foucault's social ontology , volume 14 , p. 543 - 563 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G Aras , D Crowther
Making sustainable development sustainable
Management Decision , volume 47 , issue 6 , p. 975 - 988 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Armstrong
The influence of michel foucault on accounting research
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 55 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
534,865
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies