Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seventy Years of Accounting Standards for M&A

26 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2017

Kevin Li

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: February 14, 2016

Abstract

Seventy years of accounting standards for M&A 2005 was the first year in history when the US, the UK and the (now very substantial) jurisdiction of international standards were governed by largely harmonised standards on accounting for business combinations. This paper charts the evolution of such standards from the beginning of accounting standard-setting some seventy years ago. It uses a geographical perspective to display the tensions between jurisdictions, and a historical perspective to chart the innovations in standards, the pressures to modify standards, and the processes of, variously, evolution and reversal which have characterised the route to 2005’s arrangements. Finally, it reports on dissatisfaction with the current harmonised standards and proposals to revert to previous arrangements.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Merger and Acquisition, History

JEL Classification: M48, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kevin and Meeks, Geoff, Seventy Years of Accounting Standards for M&A (February 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Accounting for Intangible Assets
Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 24 Posted: 1944
Business Combinations. Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 40 Posted: 1950
Crossref
AIA (1953) Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletin
Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 43
Business Combinations. Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 48 Posted: 1957
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,794
RANK
222,076
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies