Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Use and Abuse of Legislative History in the ‘Preparer Fraud’ Doctrine

70 Tax Lawyer, Fall 2016

38 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2016

Adam Wallwork

Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP (New York)

Date Written: February 18, 2016

Abstract

For more than a century, U.S. tax evaders have been liable for unpaid tax at any time so that statutes of limitation do not stymie collection of fruits of fraud. Today, however, federal courts of appeal are split over a novel doctrine that holds unwitting victims of abusive tax professionals strictly and perpetually liable for their mistake. For eight years, the U.S. Tax Court followed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals has promulgated a new rule of tax assessment masquerading under an historical veneer that for the first time eliminates repose from honest taxpayers who filed their returns in good faith. The Federal Circuit's recent decision to fight the doctrine of preparer fraud on first principles requires an accurate historical record for the Supreme Court to decide the contest, which this article finally provides.

Keywords: Tax Return Preparers, Federal Income Taxation, Tax Policy, Tax Procedure, Tax Controversy, Statute of Limitations, IRC 6501, fraudulent returns, law and economics

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H26, E62, H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Wallwork, Adam, On the Use and Abuse of Legislative History in the ‘Preparer Fraud’ Doctrine (February 18, 2016). 70 Tax Lawyer, Fall 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2734317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Id
, p. 21 - 22
City Wide Transit, Inc., 709 F.3d
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
RANK
872,691
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies