Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Genesis of the Double Account System: A Case Study of a UK Gas Company at the Beginning of the 19th Century

13 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Mitsunori Kasukabe

Hokkaido University - Graduate School of Economics & Business Administration

Chie Sawanobori

Osaka Sangyo University

Date Written: February 20, 2016

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to investigate the double account system employed in a UK gas company at the beginning of the 19th century. The double account system refers to a form of preparing accounts that emphasises an approach of distinguishing capital expenditure from revenue expenditure. The previous research on this system included the study of Edwards (1985), which focused on UK railway companies, in which he states that the accounts prepared for the first half of 1838 by the London and Birmingham Railway Company (LBR) is the earliest example of the adoption of the double account system. However, the Independent Gas Light and Coke Company (IGLC) prepared accounts using the double account system in 1824. This is more than 10 years before the example cited by Edwards. The accounts of the IGLC at that time can be seen as an attempt to distinguish capital expenditure from revenue expenditure. In addition, Edwards (1985) argued that the introduction of accrual basis accounting was essential to the establishment of the double account system, but a transition from cash basis accounting to accrual basis accounting is observed in the IGLC’s accounts.

Keywords: double account system, gas company, classification of expenditure into capital and revenue, accrual basis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, N63, N83

Suggested Citation:

Kasukabe, Mitsunori and Sawanobori, Chie, Genesis of the Double Account System: A Case Study of a UK Gas Company at the Beginning of the 19th Century (February 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2735263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
P Chantler
The British gas industry: an economic study Posted: 1938
L C Cropper
Higher book-keeping and accounts Posted: 1927
L R Dicksee
Auditing: A practical manual for auditors Posted: 1892
L R Dicksee
Advanced Accounting Posted: 1903
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,136
RANK
640,442
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Environmental Anthropology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies