Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Practices of British Gas Companies from 1812 to 1830

23 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Mitsunori Kasukabe

Hokkaido University - Graduate School of Economics & Business Administration

Chie Sawanobori

Osaka Sangyo University

Date Written: February 20, 2016

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the auditing practices of British gas companies at the beginning of the 19th century, mainly the Chartered Gas Light and Coke Company (GLCC) , which was the first and largest of the gas undertakings worldwide. Gas companies paved the way for the railroads, but their practices have not been sufficiently described. After studying primary source materials from the GLCC, we found that the company created an elaborate accounting system and conducted systematic audits. Our analysis focused on three areas: (1) audit departments, (2) auditors, and (3) audit scope. Our main conclusion is that the GLCC formed a ‘Committee of Accounts, Finance and Audit,’ and audited bills and Accounts from the time of its founding but before the start of legally mandated auditing. The company also instituted an internal check system used to manage the operations of the collectors at each office (‘station’). Concurrently, the GLCC may have created a system related to the internal controls used today. While audits were initially completed by directors serving as auditors, non-director auditors originated in 1815. This change may represent the start of auditors as a discrete independent institution. Simultaneously, developments such as an authorised capital reduction that left the GLCC with limited funds may have forced the GLCC to raise more funds to appease its shareholders.

Keywords: Audit, Gas Companies

JEL Classification: M41, M42, N63, N83

Suggested Citation:

Kasukabe, Mitsunori and Sawanobori, Chie, Auditing Practices of British Gas Companies from 1812 to 1830 (February 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2735239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A J Arnold , S Mccartney
The beginnings of accounting for capital consumption: Disclosure practices in the British railway industry
Accounting and Business Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 195 - 208 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R P Brief
Nineteenth century accounting error
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 12 - 31 Posted: 1965
Crossref
R P Brief
The origin and evolution of nineteenth-century asset accounting
Business History Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1966
Crossref
R A Bryer
Accounting for the railway mania of 1845: A great railway swindle? Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 16 , issue 5 , p. 439 - 486 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,071
RANK
627,303
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies