Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Cultural Capital and Habitus in Corporate Accounting: A Post-Colonial Context

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2016

Dina Aburous

Zayed University; ESADE Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

Research documenting professionalization in the accounting domain is, with few exceptions, restricted to accounts in which the meaning of profession is defined and understood through membership rules of professional accounting associations. Researchers studying profession in post-colonial societies have argued that socio-political factors linked to elitism, the presence of British public accountants, and British affiliated professional associations, have contributed to restricting public accounting opportunities to a privileged group. While this acknowledges the role of colonization in the emergence of profession what remains unclear is to what extent are occupational field self-regulations and exclusionary mechanisms present in the absence of British affiliated professional associations. This paper analyzes perceptions of corporate accountants to show how profession in a post-colonial environment can be enacted with Western categories constituting cultural capital. “Corporate accounting” in this paper is conceptualized as a social field in which missionary education, Western professional certifications, English language proficiency, and a Westernized image contribute to privilege and shaping accounting opportunities. Such an examination may expand the profession research agenda to informal rules of closure and less familiar forms of profession.

Keywords: Corporate accounting, accounting profession, accounting domain, Jordan, Bourdieu, post-colonial

Suggested Citation:

Aburous, Dina, Understanding Cultural Capital and Habitus in Corporate Accounting: A Post-Colonial Context (March 1, 2016). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Abbott
The System of Professions: An Essay on the Division of Expert Labor Posted: 1988
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: an empirical investigation
National Bureau of Economic Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Occupational identity of management accountants in Britain and Germany
European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 477 - 498 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,298
RANK
703,106
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies