Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Price Waterhouse & Co. on the CAP, the APB, and in the Early Years on the FASB

11 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2016

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 17, 2016

Abstract

Price Waterhouse & Co., for decades the premier public accounting firm in the United States and which audits a large number of “blue chip” companies, has, directly and indirectly, been a large and frequent presence in the U.S. standard-setting arena. It is the purpose of this paper to document this presence and to determine whether it had a discernible effect on the outcomes of the standard setters’ deliberations. The conclusion is that, appearances notwithstanding, there has been no evidence of a continuing, noticeable effect.

Keywords: Price Waterhouse, standard setting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The Influence of Price Waterhouse & Co. on the CAP, the APB, and in the Early Years on the FASB (March 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2750644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2750644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
General Introduction and Rules Formally Adopted
Accounting Research Bulletin , issue 1 Posted: 1939
D G Allen , K Mcdermott
Accounting for Success: A History of Price Waterhouse in America 1890-1990 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J A Anderson
Coalition formation in the APB and the FASB
The Accounting Review , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 190 - 195 Posted: 1982
H W Bevis
Corporate Financial Reporting in a Competitive Economy Posted: 1965
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
614,410
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies