Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A 'Friend and Advisor': Management, Auditors, and Confidence In Germany's Credit Cooperatives, 1889-1914

42 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2001

Timothy W. Guinnane

Yale University - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: May 2001

Abstract

Economic enterprises face two, related, managerial problems: effective management of the enterprise's activities, and communicating to outsiders that the enterprise is in fact well-run. These problems were especially difficult in the credit cooperative movement that grew up in Germany in the second half of the nineteenth century. These successful cooperatives thrived because they could harness the information and ties among local people to obviate many of the problems that faced other lenders. Doing so required managers who were themselves local people. Yet few if any locals had any banking experience, and most were not even familiar with basic accounting methods. These local managers created internal management problems and enhanced outside suspicion of the cooperatives as banking enterprises. The methods developed to overcome these problems relied on a combination of local initiative and regional assistance that was typical of the movement as a whole. The movement's ability to train its own talent suggests a broader impact not captured by statistics on membership or financial assets.

Keywords: Credit cooperative; External audit

JEL Classification: G2, N23, O16, M40, M46, M49

Suggested Citation:

Guinnane, Timothy W., A 'Friend and Advisor': Management, Auditors, and Confidence In Germany's Credit Cooperatives, 1889-1914 (May 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=275185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Abhijit Banerjee , Timothy Besley , Timothy W Guinnane
Thy Neighbor's Keeper: The Design of a Credit Cooperative, with Theory and a Test
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 491 - 515 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Peter Beham
Das deutsche Pflichtprüfungswesen Posted: 1940
Crossref
Manfred Busche
Öffentliche Förderung deutscher Genossenschaften vor 1914 Posted: 1963
J R Cahill
Agricultural Credit and Cooperation in Germany
Senate Document Number , volume 17 Posted: 1913
Load more
1 Citations
Bernardo Batiz-Lazo , Masayoshi Noguchi
Auditors and the Supervision of Retail Finance: Evidence from Two Small-Sized Building Societies, 1976-1978
33 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,981
RANK
175,068
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Intermediation as Delegated Monitoring: A Simple Example

By Douglas W. Diamond

Banks and Loan Sales: Marketing Non-Marketable Assets

By Gary B. Gorton and George Pennacchi

Bank Borrowers and Loan Sales: New Evidence on the Uniqueness of Bank Loans

By Sandeep Dahiya, Manju Puri, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies