Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Matching Principle Revisited

Accounting Historians Journal (June 2016)

50 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2016 Last revised: 11 Nov 2018

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Robert Bloom

John Carroll University

Date Written: April 8, 2016

Abstract

This paper reassesses the significance of the concept of matching expenses to revenues as an accounting principle. We compare and contrast the historical views of authoritative bodies and the various scholars and practitioners who analyze this subject, drawing implications for future standard setting. Through this historical retrospective on matching, which includes a review of more contemporary research and thought, we find that matching as an approach to income measurement can be helpful in forecasting earning power. Consequently, we conclude that matching should be retained as a long-standing fundamental accounting principle in standard-setting and in practice.

Keywords: matching, conceptual framework, history

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Zimmerman, Aleksandra and Bloom, Robert, The Matching Principle Revisited (April 8, 2016). Accounting Historians Journal (June 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Opinion No. 11: Accounting for income taxes
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Posted: 1967
Apb
Statement No. 4: Basic Concepts and Accounting Principles Underlying Financial Statements of Business Enterprises
AICPA) Posted: 1970
Audits of Corporate Accounts
Correspondence between the Special Committee on Cooperation with the Stock Exchanges, AIA, and the Committee on Stock List of the , p. 1932 - 1936 Posted: 1934
Accounting Research and Terminology Bulletins Posted: 1961
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
656
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,610
RANK
92,044
3 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies