Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accessing Capital Markets: Aristocrats and New Share Issues in the Cycle and Pneumatic Tyre Industries, 1892-1898

Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-10

32 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2016

Shima Amini

University of Leeds; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Lei Lei

Independent

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 25, 2016

Abstract

The paper reconsiders the boom of the mid 1890s in which a large number of firms in the bicycle, vehicle and pneumatic tyre industries were floated. It investigates why so many of these issues featured aristocratic directors listed in their prospectuses and finds that they exemplified City connections that were a necessary condition for industrial firms located in the regions to access the London equity market. The case shows that the role and value of these directors was to access to capital markets and financial resources, as much as to signal the quality or otherwise of the issues from a market pricing point of view.

Keywords: Cycle, pneumatic tyres, initial public offerings, elite directors, aristocracy, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: G31, G34, N13, N23, N73, N83

Suggested Citation:

Amini, Shima and Lei, Lei and Toms, Steve, Accessing Capital Markets: Aristocrats and New Share Issues in the Cycle and Pneumatic Tyre Industries, 1892-1898 (April 25, 2016). Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2769908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2769908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
his role in overseeing allotments as 'heavy' (Times Posted: 2013-08
Crossref
Hooley Confessions
After Hooley acquired the Papworth estate in Cambridgeshire he and de la Warr became close neighbours (Anon. The Hooley Book , volume 170
Hooley
Crossref
Hooley Confessions , p. 74 - 79
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
623,124
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies