Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and the Forgotten Classes – A Brief History Written in Letters of Blood and Fire

43 Pages Posted: 31 May 2016

John Passant

Australian National University (ANU), College of Arts and Social Sciences, School of Politics & International Relations, Students

Date Written: May 24, 2016

Abstract

Peasants, workers and other ordinary people have shaped our world. In this paper I look at their mass struggles over tax, often escalating into broader rebellions, revolts and revolutions against the status quo. These tax rebellions can start as battles within the elite, and end as solutions within the elite, i.e. a political revolution. They can be revolts from below which the elite co-opt or repress. Or they can go a step further with the lower classes overthrowing the old way of doing things and sweeping aside the impediments to a new economic system, i.e. a social revolution.

This is a potted history of the forgotten people in the story of tax over the 600 or so years from the Magna Carta to the introduction of the permanent income tax in Great Britain. There are many more examples which I hope others, inspired by my first steps, explore. My aim is to motivate scholars to investigate the role of ordinary people in their own country’s tax rebellions and tax changes in times of economic or political crises.

Keywords: tax, history, war, democracy, class, rebellion

JEL Classification: K34, N43

Suggested Citation:

Passant, John, Tax and the Forgotten Classes – A Brief History Written in Letters of Blood and Fire (May 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2783694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2783694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
John Simkin
Taxation in the 14 th Century
Ibid
Crossref
Fagan Hilton
Crossref
John Simkin
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
897,570
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social & Political Philosophy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies