Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Accounting History: An Exploratory Study Through Topic Modeling Approach

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2016/05

42 Pages Posted: 30 May 2016

Paolo Ferri

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Maria Lusiani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Luca Pareschi

DISI - Dipartimento di Informatica, Scienza e Ingegneria; Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: May 30, 2016

Abstract

This paper contributes to the growing history of accounting history by analysing the contents of all papers published in Accounting History, one among the leading journals of the field, through a recent and promising analytical technique called Topic Modeling. Based on literature, we know what accounting history is about, but we know less how the accounting history field has evolved. By adopting Topic Modeling, an automated procedure for coding the content of corpus of text based on Bayesian statistic, the paper complements prior assessments of the accounting history literature by providing accurate measures about the relative prevalence of research areas and their evolution over time. The analysis highlights three sets of topics not uncovered by previous categorizations. In particular, the ‘Regulation’ topic, that refers to international accounting standards and auditing regulation, appears to be overlooked by previous reviews. In terms of dynamics we find that the ‘Technical core of accounting’ decreased in importance overtime in favour of more variegated and fragmented foci of research: this finding may substantiate the claimed shift from a conception of accounting as a technical practice to the one of accounting as a social practice, that is the transition from the so called ‘traditional’ to ‘new’ accounting history. Moreover, we see a pluralisation in the range of issues that are under the lenses of accounting historians. Finally, our analysis suggests that the way in which accounting history is presented or ‘talked about’ has not changed much in the last 20 years.

Keywords: Accounting history, Topic Modeling, Literature review, Journal

JEL Classification: M40, M48, H83

Suggested Citation:

Ferri, Paolo and Lusiani, Maria and Pareschi, Luca and Pareschi, Luca, Accounting for Accounting History: An Exploratory Study Through Topic Modeling Approach (May 30, 2016). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2016/05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
References Baker , C R Prentice , D
The origins of auditor liability to third parties under United States common law
Accounting History , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 182 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T J Baldwin , R H Berry
The measurement of nineteenth century accounting error: cases from the British coal industry 1864-1900
Accounting History , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 98 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Banos-Sanchez-Matamoros , F Gutierrez
Patterns literature: Movements beginning history at the beginning of the 21st century
The Accounting Historians Journal , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 144 Posted: 2010
P Barnes
Minsky's financial instability hypothesis, accounting information and the 2007-9 financial crisis in the UK and US
Accounting History , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 423 - 437 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
444,235
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Venice School of Management - Department of Management Working Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies