Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Practice and Institutions: A Historical Perspective

36 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2016 Last revised: 4 Jul 2016

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2, 2016

Abstract

This paper explains how and why Anglo-American accounting and auditing, along with corporate governance and capital markets, evolved over many centuries in response to changes in market forces and technology. We first trace the development of practices that were included in U.S. corporate governance (including accounting and auditing) before the 1930s. We then describe the nature and effect of the increase in U.S. regulation from the 1930s and the development of fair value accounting. Finally, we give an assessment of the current state of accounting, auditing and corporate governance. Our historical accounts suggest that the approach to accounting and financial reporting is more consistent with stewardship (care of net assets) than an attempt to value the firm, and that conservatism (prudence) is a critical information control and governance mechanism. We echo the U.K. Financial Reporting Council’s call on standard setters to reintroduce an explicit reference to conservatism (prudence) into the Conceptual Framework for financial reporting.

Keywords: stewardship; conservatism; prudence; market forces; political forces

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M48; N20

Suggested Citation:

Watts, Ross L. and Zuo, Luo, Understanding Practice and Institutions: A Historical Perspective (July 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Anantharaman
Understanding the evolution of SFAS 141 and 142: An analysis of comment letters
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 27 , p. 99 - 110 Posted: 2015
Crossref
B L Anderson , R D Tollison
The mythos of the corporation as a creation of the state
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 3 , p. 107 - 120 Posted: 1983
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,764
RANK
119,735
3 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies