Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Direct Taxes – Article I, Section 9, Clause 4

The Heritage Guide to the Constitution, Fully Revised 2d ed. (Washington, D.C.: The Heritage Foundation and Regnery Publishing, 2014), pp. 207-09.

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-23

6 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2016

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This essay discusses the apportionment rule in the Constitution that applies to direct taxes. Taxes that are direct (and are not taxes from incomes) must be apportioned among the states on the basis of population, regardless of how the tax base is spread across the country. That constitutional requirement makes direct taxes almost impossible to use, expect perhaps in times of war. This essay discusses the origins of the direct-tax clauses and considers what remains of the apportionment requirement today.

Keywords: direct taxes, indirect taxes, apportionment, taxes on incomes, Sixteenth Amendment

JEL Classification: K19

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., Direct Taxes – Article I, Section 9, Clause 4 (2014). The Heritage Guide to the Constitution, Fully Revised 2d ed. (Washington, D.C.: The Heritage Foundation and Regnery Publishing, 2014), pp. 207-09., Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2799869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
CowM. L. REv , volume 1 Posted: 1999
Crossref
James Campbell
Dispelling the Fog About Direct Taxation, 1 BRIT
J. AM. LEGAL STUD , volume 109 Posted: 2012
Erik M Jensen
The Apportionment of
Are Consumption Taxes Constitutional?, 97 CoLUM
L. REV , volume 2334 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
592,728
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies