Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Accounting Standards: Historical and Rational Perspectives

The Accountant’s Journal, 2005, 54(1), 23-30

14 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2016

Rufo R. Mendoza

Asian Institute of Management

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

This paper explores the historical development of international accounting standards (IAS) and the initiatives of the prominent organizations involved in international standard setting. It also explains why countries differ in national standards, why the process of harmonization of standards among countries has been slow, and why countries should now converge their accounting standards.

Many papers on IAS generally deal with the contents of the individual standards. This writer, however, believes that accountants, as social scientists, are also interested in tracing the development of social forms over time and comparing those developmental processes across cultures. Thus, this paper addresses the interest of accountants to learn how some contemporary events or institutions—like the IAS—came into being. In like manner, accountants are interested in finding out the varied reasons why the issue of coming up with a global set of accounting standards has taken a long while. Indeed, these are perspectives that substantially differ from those commonly presented in professional forum and scholarly exercises.

Suggested Citation:

Mendoza, Rufo Rosales, International Accounting Standards: Historical and Rational Perspectives (2005). The Accountant’s Journal, 2005, 54(1), 23-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Diagnostic Study of Accounting and Auditing Practices in Selected Developing Member Countries Posted: 2002
David Alexander , Simon Archer
International Accounting Standards Guide. Aspen Pulbishers Posted: 2003
Barry J Epstein , Abbas Ali Mirza
Interpretation and Application of International Accounting Standards Posted: 2003
Jere R Francis , K Inder , Raynold Khurana , Pereira
The Role of Accounting and Auditing in Corporate Governance and the Development of Financial Markets Around the World Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
456,685
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies