Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is Your EPS? Issues in Computing and Interpreting Earnings Per Share

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 20(3), 48-61.

15 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2016 Last revised: 29 Nov 2023

Jeffrey Jay Jewell

Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Jeffrey A. Mankin

Finally Learn; Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper examines several problematic issues in the presentation of information related to earnings per share (EPS) that are common to college textbooks and popular investment websites. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require disclosure of EPS for all publicly listed firms. In fact, EPS is the only financial ratio required by GAAP and it is the only financial ratio with a formula specified by GAAP. Despite these facts, many college textbooks and investment websites present incorrect formulas for the computation of EPS. Furthermore, many textbooks and investment websites either explicitly or implicitly encourage students and investors to interpret EPS incorrectly. This paper discusses these issues and contrasts proper EPS computation and interpretation with the most common errors in computation and interpretation.

Keywords: Earnings per Share, EPS, Price-Earnings Ratio, PE Ratio

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jewell, Jeffrey Jay and Mankin, Jeffrey A., What Is Your EPS? Issues in Computing and Interpreting Earnings Per Share (2016). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 20(3), 48-61., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2827796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2827796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Reporting the Results of Operations , volume 9 Posted: 1966
Accounting Principles Board (APB) , volume 15 Posted: 1969
Annual Report of the Directors of American Telephone and Telegraph Company to the Stockholders for the Year Ending December 31 Posted: 1919
B J Belda
Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins
Accounting Standards Codification 260 Earnings Per Share , volume 100 , p. 62 - 63 Posted: 1953
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,167
RANK
145,309
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies