Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost and Management Accounting in Early-Victorian Britain: A Chandleresque Analysis?

MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING RESEARCH, Vol 8, No 1, March 1997

Posted: 11 Dec 1996

Trevor Boyns

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

John Richard Edwards

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School, Accounting and Business History Research Group

Abstract

There is a widespread view that cost finding developed into cost accounting towards the end of the nineteenth century, with the further step towards what we today call management accounting occurring in the twentieth century. This bold assessment is based on an embarrassingly small amount of empirical evidence, while little is known of a key element in these transitions, namely the use of accounting information for business decision making. This study utilises the primary records of a major industrial company for the middle years of the nineteenth century to explore these issues. The theoretical framework used to inform this study is the process of business development explicated by Alfred Chandler in "Strategy and Structure." We find, not surprisingly, that the process of change was contingent upon a set of unique circumstances which shaped attitudes and actions. We discover an interaction between the accounting system, organisational structure and management decision making process which is of two-fold significance: it adds an important dimension to our knowledge of the potential of accounting numbers at this early stage in the development of the large scale enterprise; it contains conclusions which will help to illuminate the contemporary theory-practice debate concerning the role of management accounting in such organisations.

JEL Classification: M40, M46, L21, N53

Suggested Citation:

Boyns, Trevor and Edwards, John Richard, Cost and Management Accounting in Early-Victorian Britain: A Chandleresque Analysis?. MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING RESEARCH, Vol 8, No 1, March 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2835
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,888
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies