Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constructing the ‘Native Taxpayer’: The Role of the South African Native Tax in Creating an Image of an African Other

25 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2016 Last revised: 19 Sep 2016

Jonathan M. Barrett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: September 16, 2016

Abstract

‘Grand Apartheid’ formally began in 1948 with the election of the National Party government led by DF Malan but efforts to officially alienate Black Africans, whose supernumerary potential threatened European domination of South Africa, began long before that. The Natives Land Act 1913, which reserved the greater part of the country to the minority of settlers, is a crucial pillar of proto-separate development. Less well-known but, as this paper will argue, also of great significance was the Natives Taxation and Development Act 1925 (‘Natives Tax Act’). The Natives Tax Act introduced national poll and hut taxes (collectively, ‘the native tax’) which continued to be levied until 1969. By the time of the repeal of the Natives Tax Act, the native tax had become insignificant but, in the decades immediately following its introduction, the tax generated a significant body of case law. Many of these decisions were implicitly informed by a construction of the Black African as an ‘Other’, different from both Europeans and the Khoisan, the autochthonous people of the Cape of Good Hope.

Drawing, in particular, on Edward Said’s conception of alterity, employed most famously in Orientalism, this paper analyses the case law relating to the Natives Tax Act to demonstrate how the judiciary was instrumental in constructing an image of the African Other. This image is principally of a ‘black’, male adult, capable of strenuous physical labour. Secondary characteristics include a propensity to laziness, non-Cartesian reasoning and sexual license. Imagined and alienated in this way, the African Other was not only a crucial factor of production, he would also become a useful construct in the attempted implementation of separation in all elements of social life in South Africa. (Social, rather than economic, it may be noted, because African labour has always made the country’s agriculture and mining industries possible.) In excursus, the paper notes the remarkable case of Elizabeth Napier, a woman prosecuted for failing to pay the native tax.

Keywords: South Africa, poll tax, Edward Said, cultural construction, Other

Suggested Citation:

Barrett, Jonathan M., Constructing the ‘Native Taxpayer’: The Role of the South African Native Tax in Creating an Image of an African Other (September 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2840091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2840091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Peschel
457 sceptically reports that Bleek, among others, thought the Khoisan languages were related to ancient Egyptian and Coptic, and categorised them as Hamito-Semitic
Mohamed , R
, p. 5 - 61 Posted: 1930
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
Fakiri V R
, p. 10 - 45 Posted: 1938
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
RANK
336,300
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Anthropology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies