Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coordinates of the Accounting in Romania. Historical and Current Perspectives

Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., Dumitru, Mădălina, Gușe, Raluca, Pitulice Ileana Cosmina, Ștefanescu, Aurelia and Țurlea, Eugeniu - Coordinates of the Accounting in Romania. Historical and Current Perspectives, Ed. ALPHA MDN, 2011

277 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2016

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Madalina Dumitru

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Ileana Cosmina Pitulice

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Stefanescu Aurelia

Independent

Turlea Eugeniu

Independent

Date Written: October 13, 2011

Abstract

Nowadays, in accounting, the study of the past and of the national specific features is conducted within two disciplines: Accounting History and Comparative Accounting. Through the phenomenon of hybridization, these two dimensions have resulted in a new research area: the historical and the current comparative approach of accounting. The necessity of such a research area has been expressed by Walton (1995) as it follows: “starting from a fundamental position that the ensemble of accounting practices and regulations in any of the countries at any given time are not representative of the present but are rather an accumulation of past decisions which have been modified in response to many different stimuli over a span of time, it follows that anyone wishing to study the current state of financial reporting in a particular country needs to be able to examine how the regulations have developed historically”. Starting from this premise, the authors have attempted to capture particular aspects of Romanian accounting.

The publication of this paper in English is a consequence of the fact that the lack of historical and sometimes current information in respect to accounting in some countries is often regarded as an impediment in the comparative historical research. The motivation for historical and current approaches in the field of several segments of Romanian accounting (financial accounting and reporting, management accounting, public sector accounting, non-for-profit organizations accounting, banks and other financial institutions accounting) has been reinforced by Parker’s assessment (1993). The author believes that “the writing of accounting history is increasingly dominated by writers in English discussing private-sector accounting in English-speaking countries (...) it would be a pity if they came to regard their small sub-set of the subject as constituting the whole and the regard as worthy of research only those aspects of accounting which are regarded as important today”. The paper is addressed to all those who want to learn some information concerning the development of the accounting system in Romania, in the context of economic and political changes in the existing paradigm over time. Accordingly, the accounting system in Romania is considered during three distinct periods. The period 1908-1948 is characterized by the existence of an accounting journal in which the authors discussed specific issues, based on researches that were correlated with those in other countries (France, Germany). The period 1949-1989 is characterized by a Soviet-inspired accounting system, similar to the ones in other Eastern and Central European countries where there was a socialist economic system and a communist government. This accounting system was lacking options. An intense process of changes in the accounting domain characterizes the period 1990 to date. In terms of influences exercised, the most significant are the French influence at the beginning of the ‘90s and the international influence at the end of the decade. On the other hand, new areas of interest emerge that have been (almost) inexistent in the past (auditing, group accounts).

There are inherent limitations to such an approach. First, the historical approach is based primarily on information published in professional journals, and therefore since no information was published prior to 1908 (when the first issue of an accounting journal was published) the data for the period before this moment is very scarce. In addition, some segments have not been addressed (e.g. Insurance) and others have been addressed briefly (Not-for-profit organizations, Banks and other financial institutions). Another limit consists of the differences in terminology. For this reason, whenever a quote or an abbreviation were used to express specific national issues, the original text was also presented. Finally, given that over time the same concept has had different labels in Romanian and that none of the authors is a native English speaker, this was a more difficult aspect to capture.

Keywords: Accounting, History, Romania, changes in accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Dumitru, Madalina and Guse, Raluca and Pitulice, Ileana Cosmina and Aurelia, Stefanescu and Eugeniu, Turlea, Coordinates of the Accounting in Romania. Historical and Current Perspectives (October 13, 2011). Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., Dumitru, Mădălina, Gușe, Raluca, Pitulice Ileana Cosmina, Ștefanescu, Aurelia and Țurlea, Eugeniu - Coordinates of the Accounting in Romania. Historical and Current Perspectives, Ed. ALPHA MDN, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
212 References
Ro
în baza planului de conturi general şi a normelor de utilizare a acestuia, ministerele, departamentele, unităile de grup (UCECOM, CENTROCOOP etc.), (...) pot elabora planuri de conturi şi norme de utilizare specifice ramurilor şi sectoarelor de activitate, cu avizul Ministerului Finanelor
Ro
Ordinul Ministrului Finanlor Publice nr. 772/2000 de aprobare a Normelor privind consolidarea consturilor REFERENCES Books, articles, and on-line resources
G Alaci
Organizarea unei mari bănci comerciale (Organization of an Important Commercial Bank) Posted: 1927
N Albu , C Albu
Control de gestiune. Instrumente de management al performanei
Controlling. Performance Management Tools) , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
470,088
212 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies