Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reply to ‘So, Who Really is a 'Noted Author' Within the Accounting Literature? A Reflection on Benson Et Al. (2015)’

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 41, No. 4, 2016

Posted: 4 Nov 2016

Karen L. Benson

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Tom Smith

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

This article provides a brief response to the paper by Deegan entitled ‘So, who really is a “noted author” within the accounting literature? A reflection on Benson et al. (2015)’.

Keywords: Accounting literature, noted author, qualitative, research areas, social and environmental

Suggested Citation:

Benson, Karen L. and Smith, Tom M., Reply to ‘So, Who Really is a 'Noted Author' Within the Accounting Literature? A Reflection on Benson Et Al. (2015)’ (November 1, 2016). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 41, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864517
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies