Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'The Collector Will Call': Controlling Philanthropy through the Annual Reports of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 1837-1856

Accounting History Review, Vol. 22(1), p. 47-72, 2012

Posted: 6 Dec 2016

William J. Jackson

Heriot-Watt University

Date Written: March 2012

Abstract

The annual report is conventionally understood as a mechanism through which those external to an entity receive information about its internal workings as a basis for holding to account those responsible for its stewardship. By contrast the current study examines the role of the annual report as an instrument for rendering external parties visible and accountable to the organisation, their local communities and to themselves. The paper analyses the ways in which the managers of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary (ERI), an elite voluntary hospital, utilised the disclosure of the names of charitable givers in its annual reports to encourage philanthropic behaviour during the nineteenth century. It is argued that the financiers of the Infirmary were the principal subjects of the annual report and were made accountable through it. As changing economic and demographic circumstances increased pressure on hospital resources, managers of the ERI structured the presentation of data in the annual report in ways designed to encourage individuals and certain groups to question the sufficiency of their benevolence. The study reveals that the annual report has the potential to project accountability onto the self in multi-directional ways, not merely into the interior of the organisation, but also into those exterior social spaces surrounding it.

Keywords: Annual Report, History, Hospitals, Philanthropy, Scotland, Nineteenth Century

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, William J., 'The Collector Will Call': Controlling Philanthropy through the Annual Reports of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 1837-1856 (March 2012). Accounting History Review, Vol. 22(1), p. 47-72, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2879936
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies