Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'How Easy Can the Barley Brie': Drinking Culture and Accounting Failure at the End of the Nineteenth Century in Britain

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 25, Issue 4, pp. 635-658, 2012

Posted: 6 Dec 2016

William J. Jackson

Heriot-Watt University

Audrey Paterson

University of Aberdeen

Christopher K. M. Pong

Heriot-Watt University - School of Management and Languages

Simona Scarparo

Deakin University - Deakin Business School

Date Written: November 2012

Abstract

Purpose – This paper seeks to extend the development of the historical accounting research agenda further into the area of popular culture. The work examines the discourses that surrounded the drinking of alcohol in nineteenth century Britain and explores how an accounting failure disrupted the tension between the two established competing discourses, leading to a significant impact on UK drinking culture at the end of the nineteenth century.

Design/methodology/approach – The paper employs both primary and secondary sources. Secondary sources are used to develop the main themes of the discourses deployed by the temperance societies and the whisky companies. Primary sources derived from the contemporary press are employed, as necessary, in support.

Findings – The paper demonstrates that accounting, although it may not be central to a discourse or other social structure, can still have a profound impact upon cultural practices. The potential for research into culture and accounting should not therefore be dismissed if no immediate or concrete relationship between culture and accounting can be determined. Further support is provided for studies that seek to expand the accounting research agenda into new territories.

Originality/value – The study of popular culture is relatively novel in accounting research. This paper seeks to add to this research by exploring an area of cultural activity that has hitherto been neglected by researchers, i.e. by exploring how an accounting incident impacted upon the historical consumption of Scotch whisky in the UK.

Keywords: Accounting, History, Culture, Whisky, Temperance, United Kingdom, Drinks, Alcoholic drinks

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, William J. and Paterson, Audrey and Pong, Christopher K.M. and Scarparo, Simona, 'How Easy Can the Barley Brie': Drinking Culture and Accounting Failure at the End of the Nineteenth Century in Britain (November 2012). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 25, Issue 4, pp. 635-658, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2879978
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,058
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cultural Anthropology: History, Theory, Methods & Applications eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies