Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Histories on Individuals and Societies: A Replication and Extension of Berg Et. Al.

Research in Experimental Economics – Volume on Replication (2015) 95 – 135

Posted: 7 Dec 2016

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Radhika Lunawat

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Brian P. Shapiro

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 8, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies how successive generations of laboratory societies organize themselves when given reports of financial transactions from previous generations. We define an increase in societal organization as a reduction in the entropy of the distribution of amounts sent and returned by successive generations of players in the Investment Game. Our entropy analysis of data from Berg, Dickhaut, and McCabe (Games and Economic Behavior, 10, pp. 122-142, 1995) indicates that the provision of a financial history significantly reduced the entropy of the amounts sent by Investors and amounts returned by Stewards, and marginally reduced the entropy in the joint Investor/Steward distribution. We replicated the Berg. et al. (1995) setting and gathered data from three additional societal generations to further test the predictive power of our hypothesis that successive generations of individuals in laboratory societies will increasingly organize themselves over time when they receive reports of financial transactions undertaken by the preceding generation. Participants in Session I (the first generation) received no financial history, whereas participants in the subsequent Sessions II-V received a report that summarized the financial history of the immediately preceding session. Thus, Sessions I and II replicate the original Berg et al. (1995) study, and Sessions III-V extend that study. In general, our results across sessions indicate that entropy declined in both the amounts sent by Investors and the percentage returned by Stewards, but these patterns are weaker and mixed compared to those in the Berg et al. (1995) study. The concluding section discusses the implications of our results and identifies opportunities for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Lunawat, Radhika and Shapiro, Brian P., The Impact of Financial Histories on Individuals and Societies: A Replication and Extension of Berg Et. Al. (May 8, 2015). Research in Experimental Economics – Volume on Replication (2015) 95 – 135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2881694
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies