Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting on the Road: Turnpike Administration in Early Nineteenth Century Britain

Posted: 27 Feb 1997

Sonja Gallhofer

University of Aberdeen - Business School

Jim Haslam

Heriot-Watt University

Date Written: July 1996

Abstract

This paper focuses upon concerns to regulate the turnpike trusts in early nineteenth century Britain. The focus is particularly upon the perceptions of accounting and how accounting is mobilised in this context. Through analysis of parliamentary debates, laws governing turnpike trusts and parliamentary committee deliberations over the management of turnpikes an attempt is made to bring out the sense in which the concerns involved are reflective of more general developments taking place at that time in England and Wales. We particularly focus here upon the move to introduce principles of management governed by a scientific reasoning in the focus of turnpike administration and upon the controversy over attempts of the state to intervene and control what were perceived to be matters of local consideration.

JEL Classification: L50

Suggested Citation:

Gallhofer, Sonja and Haslam, James, Accounting on the Road: Turnpike Administration in Early Nineteenth Century Britain (July 1996). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies