Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Czech Accounting Academia and Practice: Historical Roots and Current Issues

Irena Jindrichovska & Dana Kubickova, 2015, Czech Accounting Academia and Practice: Historical Roots and Current Issues, Accounting and Management Information Systems, vol. 14(2), pp 328-361

25 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2017 Last revised: 19 Mar 2017

Irena Jindrichovska

Anglo-American University Prague

Dana Kubickova

University of Finance and Administration

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to investigate the development of Czech accounting research and education and their links to current practice. The paper uses the auto-ethnography method and deals with some of the main issues arising in current university research management practices. To this aim we apply our own experience and combine personal perspectives and existing literature (research papers on historical and contemporary academic environment and the current debates regarding management of academic research). The underlying premise of the analysis is that the actual status of accounting academics and accounting education in the Czech Republic is rooted in its past and is closely linked to practice. Characteristics of educational institutions involved in the process of accounting research and education are provided in the main body of the article. The paper also delves into current relations amongst academia, practice and training institutions. The article addresses the quality of Czech accounting research and financial support of universities and it ends with an analysis of current academic and research topics. We finally characterize major shortcomings of the Czech academic accounting research community which seems to be one of the results of changes in the management system of higher education and research. However, it must be stressed in this respect that most current published Czech accounting research reflects the needs of accounting practice rather than academic research as traditionally understood in western countries.

Keywords: accounting education, accounting profession, Czech Republic, central-planning, development of accounting, historical analysis, transformation, IFRS

JEL Classification: M20, M40, G32

Suggested Citation:

Jindrichovska, Irena and Kubickova, Dana, Czech Accounting Academia and Practice: Historical Roots and Current Issues (2015). Irena Jindrichovska & Dana Kubickova, 2015, Czech Accounting Academia and Practice: Historical Roots and Current Issues, Accounting and Management Information Systems, vol. 14(2), pp 328-361, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
N Albu , C N Albu
How to Perform in the Field of Accounting Research? The Case of Romania
International Journal of Critical Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 174 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C N Albu , S Toader
Bridging the gap between accounting academic research and practice: some conjectures from Romania
Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 173 Posted: 2012
D Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A true and fair view of the principles/rules debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C R Baker , E M Barbu
Evolution of Research on International Accounting Harmonization: A Historical and Institutional Perspective
Socio-Economic Review , volume 5 , p. 603 - 632 Posted: 2007-03-14
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
950
RANK
713,739
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies