Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Narrative and its Place in the New Accounting History: The Rise of the Counternarrative

Posted: 3 Mar 1997

Warwick Funnell

University of Wollongong

Date Written: July 1996

Abstract

Traditional history has sought to provide narrative accounts of the past which can be accepted as factual, devoid of fictions and therefore true. This image has come under strong attack from new historians who denounce the narrative as a literary convention which mixes fiction (myth) and fact rather than being a model of an extant, discoverable reality. It is more appropriate, they argue, to call accounts of history mythistory. The narrative is also accused of being the means of privileging some accounts of history and thereby enhancing the position of social elites. This paper rejects condemnation of the ability of narrative history to provide reliable accounts of the past and promotes the role of narrativity in the 'new' accounting history. It is shown that new accounting history still finds merit in the narrative as both the form in which historical events occur and as a means of telling alternative stories or counternarratives.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Funnell, Warwick, The Narrative and its Place in the New Accounting History: The Rise of the Counternarrative (July 1996). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies