Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does the FASB Make Decisions? A Descriptive Study of Agenda Setting and the Role of Individual Board Members

59 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2017 Last revised: 28 Jul 2017

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Isabel Yanyan Wang

Michigan State University

Daniel Wangerin

Wisconsin School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 27, 2017

Abstract

This study provides descriptive evidence about how the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) sets Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Based on 211 financial accounting standards issued between 1973 and 2014, we report the reasons that the FASB adds or removes projects from its agenda, the parties most frequently bringing issues to the FASB’s attention, and commonly recurring topics across different standards over time. We find that reducing diverse practices and inconsistent guidance is the most frequent reason cited by the FASB to take on a project and more than half of the standards are intended to enhance comparability. We find that the SEC, AICPA, and large public accounting firms are identified most frequently by the FASB as the parties bringing issues to its attention. Accounting for financial instruments is the most frequent recurring topic across accounting standards, which potentially explains the growth in fair value measurement in U.S GAAP over time. We analyze the dissenting opinions written by Board members and find some evidence that the stated reasons for disagreements are associated with their professional backgrounds. However, our analyses indicate Board members’ positions on fair value accounting are context-specific and cannot be fully explained by their professional backgrounds.

Keywords: the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the FASB, accounting standards, standard-setting, agenda, fair value, individual differences

JEL Classification: D78, M41, M48, M50

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Wang, Isabel and Wangerin, Daniel D., How Does the FASB Make Decisions? A Descriptive Study of Agenda Setting and the Role of Individual Board Members (July 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2906596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Allen
Agenda setting at the FASB: Evidence from the role of the FASAC Posted: 2013
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) 2011. Blue-Ribbon Panel on Standard Setting For Private Companies
S Barr
FASB under siege
CFO , volume 10 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 1994-09
Load more
1 Citations
Christie Hayne , Bertrand Malsch
Creating Private Incentives while Avoiding Capture: A Field Study of SASB’s Political Economy
43 Pages · Posted: 20 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 188
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,002
RANK
143,068
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies