Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Group Psychology in Behavioural Finance: A Research Starting Point for Banking, Economic, and Financial Historians

Decision Taking, Confidence and Risk Management in Banks: From Early Modernity to the 20th Century. Korinna Schönhärl, editor, 269-292, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.

Posted: 14 Feb 2017

Victor Ricciardi

Ursinus College; SSRN

Date Written: February 11, 2017

Abstract

This book chapter discusses the significance of group psychology within the field of behavioural finance in order to provide a starting point for researchers in banking, economic, and financial history. Some of the major themes of behavioural finance are presented, including overconfidence, representativeness, anchoring, worry, and herd behaviour. The other major portion of this piece examines group behaviour within the investment decision-making process, drawing on the social sciences (largely social psychology) to consider the topics of group polarization and groupthink. The author provides an overview of each topic to encourage researchers to investigate these important issues as potential causes of historical events within banking, economics, and finance. Of course there are limitations to applying behavioural finance theories and themes to historical research. Historians should investigate these potentially new ideas with a degree of caution.

Keywords: Investor psychology, history of finance, investment theory, behavioral finance, behavioural finance, behavioral economics, history of investments, bubbles, panics, crashes, overconfidence, representativeness, grandiosity, anchoring, worry, herd behaviour, group polarization, risky shift, groupthink

JEL Classification: A12, D81, G00, G30, G10, M00, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ricciardi, Victor, The Role of Group Psychology in Behavioural Finance: A Research Starting Point for Banking, Economic, and Financial Historians (February 11, 2017). Decision Taking, Confidence and Risk Management in Banks: From Early Modernity to the 20th Century. Korinna Schönhärl, editor, 269-292, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2915589
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,595
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies