Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Birth of Tax as a Legal Discipline

37 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2017 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Henk Vording

Leiden University - Leiden Law School; Peking University - Peking University Law School

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

Adam Smith’s taxation maxims found fertile ground in the Netherlands in the early nineteenth century – a time of national tax reform. But as the century drew to an end, progressive liberal thinking parted from its British inspiration. John Stuart Mill’s ‘equality of sacrifice’ was rejected by Nicolaas Pierson, the leading political economist of his age, as being too individualistic. Instead, the German Historical School with its idea of an organic relation between state and citizens gave guidance, especially to Pieter Cort van der Linden’s work on taxation. Borrowing from the German concept of Rechtsstaat, he laid the foundations for tax as a legal discipline.

Keywords: nineteenth-century Dutch tax theory, liberal theory, Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, Pierson, Cort van der Linden, German Historical School, Rechtsstaat, rule of law, organic theory, distributive justice.

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans and Vording, Henk, The Birth of Tax as a Legal Discipline (February 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2919003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2919003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
525
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,527
RANK
122,264
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies