Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'From Contested Concept to Cornerstone of Administrative Practice': Social Learning and the Early History of U.S. Tax Withholding

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 7, No. 144, 2016

American Bar Foundation Research Paper

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper

26 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: December 5, 2016

Abstract

The process of establishing a stable and effective system of taxation is a hallmark of nearly all modern states. Among the many modern administrative innovations adopted to facilitate effective tax compliance in the United States, arguably none has been more significant than the use of third-party reporting and tax withholding. Yet, like most administrative achievements, the effective implementation of information reporting and tax withholding did not occur quickly or easily. The evolution of withholding and third-party reporting thus raises a series of important historical questions: how did a contested administrative concept become an accepted and celebrated method of tax collection? What were the pivotal periods of administrative reform during this seemingly path-dependent process? Why were activists, commentators, and lawmakers opposed to the growth of this administrative practice? And, how did reformers and government officials overcome this hostility during critical junctures in the development of this important administrative achievement? One of the principal aims of this article is to attend to the early U.S. history of income tax withholding and third-party information reporting. Building upon earlier studies, this article contends that examining the pre-1943 adoption of income tax withholding is critical not only to a deeper historical understanding of how information reporting and withholding were transformed from a contested concept to an administrative cornerstone, but also to our future expectations of administrative and bureaucratic reform.

Keywords: U.S. Tax Policy, Legal History

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., 'From Contested Concept to Cornerstone of Administrative Practice': Social Learning and the Early History of U.S. Tax Withholding (December 5, 2016). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 7, No. 144, 2016, American Bar Foundation Research Paper, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Supra Huret , Note
Crossref
See supra text accompanying notes , p. 61 - 64
Supra Huret , Note
Id
quoting New Jersey Senator James Smith Jr
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,238
RANK
521,427
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies