Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Beginnings of the Capital Gains Tax Preference

Fordham Law Review, Vol. 84, No. 2517, 2016

American Bar Foundation Research Paper

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper

21 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Julia C. Ott

New School for Social Research

Date Written: March 5, 2016

Abstract

Despite the importance of the capital gains tax preference, and the controversy it often evokes, there has been relatively little serious scholarly attention paid to the historical development of this highly significant tax provision. This Article seeks to move beyond the normative and presentist concerns for or against the tax preference to recount the empirical beginnings and early twentieth-century development of this important tax law. In exploring the curious beginnings of the capital gains tax preference, this brief Article has several aims. First, its main goal is to show that the preference is not a timeless or transhistorical concept, but rather a historically contingent one—a concept that has been shaped not purely by economic logic, but rather by political compromise and social experience. Second, it uses the capital gains tax preference to shed light on broader historiographical questions about the rise and fall of different guiding principles of American political economy. Third, by examining the shifting political coalitions and constituencies behind the tax preference, it intends to show that it is not simply wealthy and elite American taxpayers and their representatives who have supported this tax law. Rather, over time, the law has had a variety of proponents, suggesting that the provision’s persistence can be explained as much by political forces and institutional inertia as by seemingly inexorable economic reasoning. Ultimately, an exploration of the beginnings and early twentieth-century development of the capital gains tax preference provides an opportunity to think about how “we are what we tax” -- the theme of this law review symposium.

Keywords: U.S. Tax Policy, Legal History, Economic History

JEL Classification: A11, B15, H20, H25, H71, K34, N41

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K. and Ott, Julia C., The Curious Beginnings of the Capital Gains Tax Preference (March 5, 2016). Fordham Law Review, Vol. 84, No. 2517, 2016, American Bar Foundation Research Paper, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Alan Brinkley , The End , Reform
NEW DEAL LIBERALISM IN RECESSION AND WAR 7 , volume 178 Posted: 1995
75-377, ch. 815, 50 Stat , volume 813
Revenue Act of 1936 , volume 14
Stat
, volume 1648
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
357,528
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies