Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Management Accounting Research: Traditions in the Making

Posted: 14 Mar 2002

Alnoor Bhimani

London School of Economics

Abstract

A sizeable body of studies in management accounting undertaken by Europeans now exists. The European Accounting Review (EAR) has been a key outlet for the publication of such works. This paper considers whether European management accounting research (EMAR) published in EAR exhibits a diverse range of methodologies and research perspectives such as to adhere to the journal's initial editorial intent of providing a forum where researchers of all backgrounds can bring their work to a wider audience. The paper also assesses whether the journal has played a role in making possible the emergence of new European traditions of management accounting. The paper develops an approach to classifying management accounting research perspectives and categorises EMAR published in EAR in this light. The analysis suggests that the journal exhibits considerable diversity in paradigm emphasis across areas of management accounting researched by Europeans. Moreover, several strands of EMAR are highlighted as contributing to novel avenues of enquiry within the field.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Bhimani, Alnoor, European Management Accounting Research: Traditions in the Making. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=297387
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,542
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies