Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting Developments in the European Union: Past Events and Future Prospects

Posted: 21 Jan 2002

Axel Haller

University of Linz - Institut für Revisions, Treuhand-und Rechnungswesen

Abstract

The decision of the Commission of the European Union (EU) to oblige listed European companies, from 2005 onwards, to establish their consolidated financial statements according to IFRS (IAS) represents a preliminary peak in the internationalisation process of financial accounting in Europe. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the landmarks of accounting developments in the EU since the 4th and 7th Directive and to reveal the obvious internationalisation process of financial accounting in the EU, which has accelerated considerably during the last ten years. Due to the considerable pressures exerted by market forces, a clear convergence of accounting practice as well as of the regulatory frameworks of the EU and its member states with IFRS (IAS) is recognisable. The harmonization effects of the market forces on national regulators and companies appear to be much larger than those of the 4th and 7th Directive. In addition to the explanation and reasoning behind past developments, this paper also discusses some future prospects of financial reporting within the EU and identifies some of its major challenges.

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Haller, Axel, Financial Accounting Developments in the European Union: Past Events and Future Prospects. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=297388
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,705
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies