Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rational Evolution or Socially Constructed Counter-Myth? Cross-Cultural Perceptions of the Development of Chinese Commercial Accounting Up to C.1850 and Its Significance

62 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2017

Keith Hoskin

Warwick Business School

Debin Ma

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economic History

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 20, 2016

Abstract

The recent rapid growth of China’s economy has reopened historical debate about the extent to which it had also prospered during the last Imperial dynasties (the Míng and the Qīng, 1368-1911). Some economic historians have argued that China’s prosperity may have even matched that of Europe, through developing significant market activity on its underlying agricultural base, until ‘the Great Divergence’ sometime in the late 18th/early 19th centuries. Given the recent revitalisation in the literature of Sombartian arguments that Western economic growth was linked to the advent of Italian double-entry bookkeeping (DEB), we question here the extent to which there is justification for the claimed development of a concomitant and indigenous Chinese form of double-entry bookkeeping (CDEB)—conventionally seen as having developed among bankers, merchants and proto-industrialists—and for its significance within that successful Chinese market economy. We sceptically review how far the emerging archival and related historical evidence for the development of Chinese accounting practices and discourses supports the arguments that have hitherto been made for CDEB. Our scepticism reinforces medieval and Renaissance European accounting historiography that continues to indicate that the development of DEB had a textual / pedagogic as well as commercial provenance, and further supports the view that any direct or linear connection between its development from the fourteenth century and that of Western capitalism has become institutionalized as a ‘rational myth’. We comment briefly on the more foundational issue concerning what is increasingly recognised as an Occidentalism that has repeatedly cast the West as ‘modern’ and ‘more developed’; and we also explore how it has in turn influenced the now conventional Chinese expositions about the nature and timing of their historical accounting developments, and led to the creation of a ‘counter-myth’ of CDEB. Drawing inter alia on recent work on original Chinese archives, our aim is to clear away the tangled undergrowth of misconceptions about Chinese accounting history that have accumulated (without a solid evidential base) in the existing literature, and to indicate what we believe are the more important questions that should in future guide Western and Chinese researchers, preferably working collaboratively, in approaching the primary Chinese archival sources as they are increasingly (re)discovered. There is a need to further test the arguments, developed both here and in wider existing research literatures, about the historical roles of accounting microtechnologies in constituting significant domains both of economic activity and of organizational and social structure in both the East and in the West.

Keywords: Chinese accounting, double-entry bookkeeping, writing, Sombart thesis, cross-cultural translation, mercantile capitalism

JEL Classification: M41, N80, N95

Suggested Citation:

Hoskin, Keith and Ma, Debin and Macve, Richard H., Rational Evolution or Socially Constructed Counter-Myth? Cross-Cultural Perceptions of the Development of Chinese Commercial Accounting Up to C.1850 and Its Significance (May 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2983849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
200 References
Guo
1563-1620) and a 'Red Account' from a Shanghai private bank from the Guāngxù period of the Qīng dynasty (1875-1908) but they are too small to read and no translation is provided. (we have subsequently been shown the larger copies that Prof. Guo has and which appear in his Chinese writings. Li (2012 in Chinese) gives multiple liiustrations of accounting records of Shānxī banks mostly from the late 19 th century / early 20 th century. Surviving Korean records of the Mun Clan Association from 1741-1883 are discussed and illustrated by
the Wànlì period of the Míng dynasty Posted: 2006
All three 'books' had several alternative names (Gardella , p. 324 - 330 Posted: 1992
Lin
Posted: 1992
Lu Aiken
Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,921
RANK
614,410
200 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies