Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Order in the Absence of Formal Regulations and Law: A Historical Perspective on Corporate Governance and the Joint Stock Company

29 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2017

Damian Tobin

University of London, SOAS, Department of Financial and Management Studies

Date Written: April 4, 2008

Abstract

The legal and political explanations that underpin the contemporary literature on corporate governance have focused how the prevailing political or legal system determines how large corporations are governed. They imply that in order to facilitate good corporate practices, emerging economies should converge towards governance systems that offer strong legal protection for investors. Distinguishing itself from this approach, this paper adopts a historical account of the major political economy factors that either impeded or facilitated the evolution of the Anglo American Joint Stock Company (JSC). This illustrates how the JSC did note merge by blueprint or design as is implied in the literature. It also describes the implicit costs associated with the JSC including political rent seeking, the expropriation of small investors, market crises and monopolies. Under these circumstances legal and political developments often enhanced corporate power at the expense of the public interest. This account suggests that the JSC is better viewed as an adaptive and innovative organisational form that has thrived in the absence of formal regulations and law, rather than as a nexus of contracts arising from market failure. The evolution of the JSC and its corporate governance structures are therefore best understood within a political economy framework that accounts for market developments, political and legal interventions and the rise of the regulatory state. For developing economies the main lesson is not that they should replicate either the US or UK, but rather they can draw on the factors that allowed both countries to lessen the costs of mobilising finance, and adapt them to suit local market structures.

Keywords: Joint Stock Company, Corporate Governance, Adaptive Organization, Anglo Saxon System, Developing Economies

Suggested Citation:

Tobin, Damian, Creating Order in the Absence of Formal Regulations and Law: A Historical Perspective on Corporate Governance and the Joint Stock Company (April 4, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2991572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organisation
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
L Bebchuk
The rent protection theory of corporate ownership and control" Working paper Posted: 1999
Crossref
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
J D Chambers
The Workshop of the World: British Economic History from 1820 to 1880 Posted: 1961
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
947
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies