Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Experience of the Philippines in Taxing Its Nonresident Citizens

Richard D. Pomp, The Experience of the Philippines in Taxing its Nonresident Citizens, in Income Taxation and International Personal Mobility (J. Bhagwati ed. 1989)

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Sep 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Date Written: 1989

Abstract

Jagdish Bhagwati has written extensively about the “brain drain”, which has sparked at least four major international conferences on the subject of whether developing countries should tax the income of their citizens living abroad. Unlike the United States, the Philippines, and (formerly) Mexico, no other nations at the time levied such a tax. The author of this chapter was commissioned by the World Bank to conduct a case study of the Philippine taxation of its nonresidents in order to gain knowledge of any administrative hurdles to such a system.

The first section of this chapter examines the taxation of nonresident citizens in the Philippines during three time periods: before 1970, 1970 to 1972, and after 1973. The country used different approaches in all three periods. The two main problems that arise are (1) whether a less developed country should tax nonresidents in the same manner as it taxes residents, and (2) administrative difficulties. The next section of this chapter analyzes the consequences of these problems on the Bhagwati proposal. This section proposes a resolution to the structural concerns, but the administrative difficulties of enforcing such a proposal are more problematic. This chapter concludes by determining that the success of the Bhagwati proposal rests with the developed countries. If developed countries commit to assisting less developed countries in collecting the income tax on nonresidents, the proposal could succeed. If not, however, it will likely accomplish few of its main objectives.

Keywords: tax, law, tax law, taxation, Jagdish Bhagwati, brain drain, developing countries, citizens, income, abroad, Philippines, Mexico, World Bank, nonresidents, policy

JEL Classification: k34, h20, h23, h24, h70, h77

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard, The Experience of the Philippines in Taxing Its Nonresident Citizens (1989). Richard D. Pomp, The Experience of the Philippines in Taxing its Nonresident Citizens, in Income Taxation and International Personal Mobility (J. Bhagwati ed. 1989), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
461,979
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies