Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revealing the Accounting Existence Through Debt-Receivable Practice at Majapahit Kingdom Era (1350)

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 59-65

7 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Jul 2017

Novrida Qudsi Lutfillah

University of Brawijaya, Faculty of Economics and Business, Students

Eko Sukoharsono

University of Brawijaya - Faculty of Economics and Business

Aji Dedi Mulawarman

University of Brawijaya

Yeney Widya Prihatiningtias

University of Brawijaya

Date Written: December 24, 2016

Abstract

Objective - The Kingdom of Majapahit was a phenomenal civilization in the Indonesian history. Accounting was then practiced in the everyday life of the kingdom. The purpose of this study is to explore the accounting practices of debt-receivable accounts during the Majapahit Kingdom era of 1350 and to find the values behind their use.

Methodology/Technique - This study is a historical qualitative study. Its primary source of data are inscriptions and legislation manuscripts taken from the Kutara Manawasastra of the Majapahit era. Historical analysis is used to analyze data with historiography so as to expose the results of the historical research. This will help to reveal the underlying values in debt-receivable practices in the era.

Findings - The findings of this study reveal that the values of debt-receivable accounts being practiced in the Majapahit era comprise the social, economic and spiritual dimensions. The trust and spiritual values were practiced as a means to tie the mutual benefits between creditors and debtors.

Novelty - The findings reveal the accounting existence of the historical past.

Keywords: Debt; Receivables; Accounting History; The Kingdom of Majapahit, Trust; Spiritual Values

JEL Classification: H63, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lutfillah, Novrida Qudsi and Sukoharsono, Eko and Mulawarman, Aji Dedi and Prihatiningtias, Yeney Widya, Revealing the Accounting Existence Through Debt-Receivable Practice at Majapahit Kingdom Era (1350) (December 24, 2016). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 59-65, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K B Adji
Majapahit: menguak Majapahit berdasar fakta sejarah Posted: 2013
S Basrowi
Memahami penelitian kualitatif. Jakarta: Rineka Cipta Posted: 2008
G D Carnegie , C J Napier
Accounting's past, present and future: the unifying power of history
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 328 - 369 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Damsar
Pengantar sosiologi ekonomi Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,033
RANK
576,212
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies