Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Management Accounting Research in the United States

British Accounting Review, Vol. 33, No. 3, September 2001, pp. 293-305

Posted: 11 Mar 2002

Michael W. Maher

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to review the evolution of management accounting research in the United States. While the development of management accounting research in the UK generally followed sociological and psychological lines of inquiries, the US work has been much more based on operations research (in the 1960s and early 1970s) followed by an emphasis on economics-based work. I surmise that the different emphases derive from the influence of the Ford Foundation on business schools in the US. I conclude with concerns about the future of management accounting research in the US.

Keywords: Management accounting; Management accounting research; Business school research

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Maher, Michael W., The Evolution of Management Accounting Research in the United States. British Accounting Review, Vol. 33, No. 3, September 2001, pp. 293-305, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=301744
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,326
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies