Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The UK's Tax Treaties with Developing Countries During the 1970s

Martin Hearson, 2017. Chapter 13 (pp. 363-381) in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (eds). Studies in the History of Tax Law, Volume 8. Hart Publishing, Oxford, UK

16 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2017

Martin Hearson

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of International Relations

Date Written: August 10, 2017

Abstract

Developing countries face three main challenges in international tax cooperation. The most widely known is the twin problems of tax avoidance by foreign investors and tax evasion by domestic actors, which have become a major focus of debate in international organisations and of civil society activism in recent years. The second problem, tax competition, incorporates a range of issues from the ‘prisoners’ dilemma’ facing countries competing for inward direct investment through to the harmful tax rules used by tax havens that enable tax avoidance and evasion. This article reviews four recent monographs that analyse these problems at an international level. While they contain much useful discussion of the problems and potential technical solutions, there remains a need for political economy research to understand why certain technical solutions have not been adopted by governments. A third challenge faced by developing countries, barely considered in the tax and development literature up to now, leads to a note of caution: international tax institutions tend to be designed in ways that place disproportionate restrictions on capital-importing countries’ ability to tax foreign investors.

Keywords: tax, double taxation, foreign direct investment, multinational companies, United Kingdom, developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Hearson, Martin, The UK's Tax Treaties with Developing Countries During the 1970s (August 10, 2017). Martin Hearson, 2017. Chapter 13 (pp. 363-381) in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (eds). Studies in the History of Tax Law, Volume 8. Hart Publishing, Oxford, UK, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
File ref IR 40/17629. 62 'Taxation brief for Mr Barratt's visit to Nigeria and meeting with the Director of Inland Revenue
File ref IR 40/17629. 63 Letter from AP Beauchamp, Inland Revenue Posted: 1972-07-21
Letter from DO Olorunlake, Nigerian Federal Inland Revenue Services Department Posted: 1979-04-17
Load more
1 Citations
Michael Littlewood
John Tiley and the Thunder of History
Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan, eds, Studies in the History of Tax Law, Volume 9, Bloomsbury, London, 2019, 55-91, The University of Auckland Faculty of Law Research Paper Series · 38 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 462
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,289
RANK
383,022
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies