Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Fraud in a Pre-Modern Historical Context: An Accounting Investigation on the Use of Market (Fair) Value in the Second Half of the Eighteenth Century in Venice

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2017 / 12

28 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017

Marisa Agostini

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Riccardo Cella

University of Verona

Giovanni Favero

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: October 3, 2017

Abstract

The paper examines accounting practices, institutions’ role and the possible ways of defining accounting fraud in pre-modern historical context through the micro-analysis of a Venetian case. The three fraudulent financial statements, investigated in this paper, refer to the years 1781, 1782, and 1783, and regard Geminiano Cozzi’s porcelain factory, an enterprise active in Venice in the second half of the eighteenth century. Their preparation was required by a government official (the Inquisitorato alle Arti) that, after the investigation of the statements, issued a report (called “Riflessioni”), emphasizing the reasons of the accounting fraud. In particular, the Inquisitorato highlighted the wrong evaluation of fixed assets at (historical) cost, arguing that it was far from the market (sale) value of such assets. The present paper examines the accounting criteria sought by the government official and fills part of the gap characterizing accounting history about the Italian peninsula.

Keywords: accounting fraud, Venetian Republic, 18th century, pottery

JEL Classification: M41, N83

Suggested Citation:

Agostini, Marisa and Cella, Riccardo and Favero, Giovanni, Accounting Fraud in a Pre-Modern Historical Context: An Accounting Investigation on the Use of Market (Fair) Value in the Second Half of the Eighteenth Century in Venice (October 3, 2017). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2017 / 12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Acfe
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. Austin: The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2010
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Agostini
Two Common Steps in Firms' Failing Path
Risk governance & control: financial markets & institutions , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 128 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Agostini , G Favero
Accounting fraud, business failure and creative auditing: A micro-analysis of the strange case of Sunbeam Corp Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,111
RANK
572,233
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies