Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Equation and Revisiting the Theory of Double-Entry Bookkeeping

“Accounting and Mathematics: Revisiting the Theory of Double Entry” (Warsono, December 2017)

17 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2017

Sony Warsono

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: November 7, 2017

Abstract

Paton’s theory of double-entry system (hereafter, “DES”) inspired the development of current accounting. This paper uses a mathematical perspective to review Paton’s and existing theory of DES called the law of property or assets. Using syntactic language, this paper proposes another theory of DES, called the “law of funds.” The paper contributes to the current literature by proposing the development of DES theory from a mathematical perspective, as DES was originally written in mathematical text and documented by a mathematics professor.

Keywords: Theory of double-entry system; Law of property or assets, Law of funds, Mathematics, Syntactic language, Semantics language.

Suggested Citation:

Warsono, Sony, The Accounting Equation and Revisiting the Theory of Double-Entry Bookkeeping (November 7, 2017). “Accounting and Mathematics: Revisiting the Theory of Double Entry” (Warsono, December 2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R N Anthony , D F Hawkins , K A Merchant
Accounting: Text and Cases Posted: 2007
L Barthel
Prevalence of accounting theory in top-ranked undergraduate accounting programs
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 135 - 140 Posted: 2014
S Basu
Panel on big unanswered questions in accounting -Genesis. Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 425 - 426 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Basu
How can accounting researchers become more innovative? Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 851 - 870 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,745
RANK
175,068
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies