Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxation and the Regulation of Early Twentieth-Century American Business

“Corporate Taxation and the Regulation of Early Twentieth-Century American Business” in The Corporation and American Democracy, eds. Naomi Lamoreaux and William Novak (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2017).*

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 17-18

Posted: 12 Dec 2017 Last revised: 3 Jan 2018

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: December 8, 2017

Abstract

In the early twentieth century, the taxation of modern business corporations became increasingly important to the development of American democracy. During that time, governments at all levels began to view business corporations not only as sources of badly needed public revenue, but also as potentially dangerous wielders of concentrated economic power. To combat the growing dominance of corporations, many fiscal reformers sought to use corporate taxation as a mode of regulatory governance. This paper explores the motives and intentions of fiscal reformers during critical junctures in the development of early twentieth-century U.S. corporate taxation. It seeks to explain how changing historical conditions shaped corporate tax law and policy. More specifically, this paper investigates why activists at certain times turned to taxation as a mode of corporate control, and why at other times they used tax policy to promote corporate growth. By focusing on the pivotal ideas and actions of key political economists, social commentators, and lawmakers, this paper attempts to answer the question: why did reformers see taxation as a viable form of public control over corporate power?

We argue that the corporate tax emerged and developed as a result of competing factions and changing social, political, and economic conditions. During the height of corporate consolidations, some reformers believed taxation could be used to control, or even reverse, the growth of corporate size and power. In the wake of corporate scandals, moreover, the government’s collection and possible publicity of corporate information was seen as one specific way to regulate and discipline large-scale industrial corporations. By contrast, others saw the corporate tax as a means to encourage and foster the kind of behavior that would generate much needed economic activity and growth, especially during periods of financial crisis and economic recovery. Still others, mediating between these two extremes, sought to use the corporate tax in a supervisory capacity, while ensuring that it did not “kill the goose which lays the golden egg.” Thus, the corporate tax that developed throughout the first half of the twentieth century reflected changing visions of corporate regulation – visions that fluctuated among demands for penalty, subsidy, and neutrality.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Corporate Taxation, American Legal History, U.S. fiscal history

JEL Classification: A11, B15, H20, H25, H71, K34, N41

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A. and Mehrotra, Ajay K., Corporate Taxation and the Regulation of Early Twentieth-Century American Business (December 8, 2017). “Corporate Taxation and the Regulation of Early Twentieth-Century American Business” in The Corporation and American Democracy, eds. Naomi Lamoreaux and William Novak (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2017).*, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 17-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084802
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies