Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforceable Accounting Rules and Income Measurement by Early 20th Century Railroads

59 Pages Posted: 6 May 2002

Kumar N. Sivakumar

Boston University - Department of Accounting

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 16, 2002

Abstract

We investigate the extent to which income measurement by major early 20th century U.S. railroads shows evidence of reduced income smoothing and increased conservatism following new fixed asset accounting rules issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) in 1907 and 1908 and concurrent rate regulation regime shifts. Accounting rules promulgated by the ICC after the Hepburn Act of 1906 are the first accounting rules in U.S. history where regulators could enforce such rules under federal law through penalties of fine and imprisonment to insure compliance. Our sample-wide results are more consistent with increased conservatism rather than income smoothing. Additional tests indicate these effects are more pronounced for firms subject to more intense rate regulation by the ICC, which suggests that the tie-in between accounting regulation and product/service market regulation influences the nature of economic effects associated with accounting regulation.

Keywords: railroads, income measurement, accounting rules, regulation, conservatism, income smoothing, early 20th century financial reporting

JEL Classification: G18, M40, M41, M43, N22, N42

Suggested Citation:

Sivakumar, Kumar N. and Waymire, Gregory B., Enforceable Accounting Rules and Income Measurement by Early 20th Century Railroads (April 16, 2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=308602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.308602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
H Adams
Administrative Supervision of Railways Under the Twentieth Section of the Act to Regulate Interstate Commerce
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 364 - 83 Posted: 1908-05
Crossref
H Adams
Railway Accounting in its Relation to the Twentieth Section of the Act to Regulate Interstate Commerce
Journal of Accountancy , p. 381 - 93 Posted: 1908-10
H Adams
American Railway Accounting Posted: 1918
Stephen Mark Bainbridge
The Law and Economics of Insider Trading: A Comprehensive Primer
Pages: 84 Posted: 13 Mar 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,617
RANK
143,068
20 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies