Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiscal Forearms: Taxation as the Lifeblood of the Modern Liberal State

The Many Hands of the State: Theorizing the Complexities of Political Authority and Social Control, eds. Kimberly Morgan and Ann Orloff (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2017)

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper 17-34

31 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2017 Last revised: 15 May 2018

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: December 21, 2017

Abstract

For nearly all advanced industrialized nation-states, taxation is the central source of public revenue. Indeed, taxation is the one policy area without which nearly all of the other functions and aspects of the modern state would not be possible. Thus, to continue the Bourdieuian metaphor of a body politic that frames this edited volume, taxation is the lifeblood of the effective, modern, liberal state. Like blood itself, taxation does much more than provide material sustenance for the body politic. Because taxation is one of the most widely and persistently experienced relationships that individuals have with their government, it helps us define the meaning of fiscal citizenship. Taxation institutionalizes the concept of a social contract between the state and its citizens, between the sovereign and its subjects. This paper, which is part of a collection of essays, explores the central role of taxation to the development of an effective, modern state. After reviewing some of the classic social and economic literature on how taxation is the key link between war and state formation, this paper investigates how scholars have recently begun to go beyond the conventional view of taxation as simply a source of material resources, to examine the historical relationship between taxation and citizenship. There is perhaps no better example of how taxation has shaped social and cultural conceptions of fiscal citizenship than the U.S.’s adoption of direct and progressive taxation in the early twentieth century. Using the United States during this period as a case study, this paper shows how American reformers deliberately deployed a particular vision and idiom about taxation to help lawmakers and ordinary Americans reimagine the financial basis of government programs.

Keywords: Taxation, citizenship, fiscal history, US tax policy, political institutions

JEL Classification: A11, B15, H20, H25, H71, K34, N41

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., Fiscal Forearms: Taxation as the Lifeblood of the Modern Liberal State (December 21, 2017). The Many Hands of the State: Theorizing the Complexities of Political Authority and Social Control, eds. Kimberly Morgan and Ann Orloff (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2017), Northwestern Public Law Research Paper 17-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3091796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Clemens
Chapter
Crossref
Kimberly J Morgan , Andrea Louise Campbell
The Delegated Welfare State: Medicare, Markets, and the Governance of Social Policy Posted: 2011
This case study is drawn mainly from Ajay K. Mehrotra, Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law, Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation , p. 1877 - 1929 Posted: 2013
Crossref
John R Commons
The Legal Foundations of Capitalism Posted: 1924
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,408
RANK
120,303
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies