Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Study of the Double Account System at the Gas Light and Coke Company

20 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2018

Mitsunori Kasukabe

Hokkaido University - Graduate School of Economics & Business Administration

Chie Sawanobori

Osaka Sangyo University

Date Written: December 25, 2017

Abstract

The double account system is a unique method of financial reporting created in the UK in the 19th century. Previous studies have claimed that double account system was created by canal companies and established with railway companies. That system was eventually institutionalised as the Regulation of Railways Act of 1868. However, the deployment of the double account system prior to the enactment of the Regulation of Railways Act in 1868 was not limited to canal companies and railway companies, it was also adopted by gas companies in London.

The purpose of this paper is to examine the various developments of the double account system by considering the Gas Light and Coke Company (GLCC) founded in London in 1810 and examining its accounting practices.

The double account system of GLCC was established in 1855. In that year, GLCC prepared the Profit and Loss an1d the Balance Sheet. This balance sheet is not an ordinary general balance sheet, but it is positioned as a general balance sheet including a capital account at the top of the debit. And GLCC adopted the usual double account system in December 31, 1868. It can be considered that GLCC used the format of the Regulation of Railways Act of 1868. On the other hand, GLCC created the statement about coal and residual products reflecting the nature of manufacturing industry. In previous studies, the development of the double account system was drawn in a single-line manner from canal companies to railway companies, but this study can actually demonstrate a double-track development including gas companies. In the 19th century, the double account system of gas companies and railway companies in London, while having a mutual impact also transferred accounting technology to each other.

Keywords: Double Account System, The Gasworks Clauses Act of 1871, the Regulation of Railways Act of 1868, The Gas Light and Coke Company, The Independent Gas Light and Coke Company

JEL Classification: M41, M42, N63, N83

Suggested Citation:

Kasukabe, Mitsunori and Sawanobori, Chie, The Study of the Double Account System at the Gas Light and Coke Company (December 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3093027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
P Chantler
The British gas industry: an economic study Posted: 1938
L C Cropper
Higher book-keeping and accounts Posted: 1927
L R Dicksee
Auditing: A practical manual for auditors Posted: 1892
L R Dicksee
Advanced accounting Posted: 1903
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
405,369
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies