Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Compliance Beyond the Letter of the Law: Reciprocity and Fair Play

in: B. Peeters, H, Gribnau, and J. Badisco (eds.), Building Trust in Taxation, Cambridge, Antwerp, Portland: Intersentia 2017

34 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2018

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: October 22, 2016

Abstract

This chapter deals with the obligation to pay taxes. It starts from the idea of voluntary taxation. In ancient Athens, the wealthy had a moral obligation to pay a periodic voluntary contribution (‘liturgy’). They paid for religious festivals and military expeditions which benefited society. This progressive voluntary tax was seen as a prerequisite for democracy, and so for equal political participation. Moreover, redistributive taxation thus mitigated substantial economic inequality. Nonetheless, there were ‘free-riders’ who undermined citizens’ trust and their willingness to pay. The lesson to be learned is that the moral (political) obligation to pay taxes needs to be laid down in the law in order to create reciprocal trust that all citizens pay their (fair) share. This does not, however, preclude free-riding, for wealthy taxpayers and multinational corporations are often able to deftly play the (international) tax rules. Here the principle of reciprocity comes in. The principle of reciprocity underlies the obligation to obey the law and engenders a duty of fair play with regard to the obligation to pay taxes. It is argued that compliance should not be reduced to minimalist rule-following, minimising one’s tax liability. This can be seen as taxpayers voluntarily complying beyond the strict letter of the law.

Keywords: voluntary taxation, Sloterdijk, Athenian democracy, tax planning, political obligation, reciprocity, trust, Rawls, duty of fair play, Sandel, autonomy, fair share, compliance, letter of the law

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans, Voluntary Compliance Beyond the Letter of the Law: Reciprocity and Fair Play (October 22, 2016). in: B. Peeters, H, Gribnau, and J. Badisco (eds.), Building Trust in Taxation, Cambridge, Antwerp, Portland: Intersentia 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M B C Democracy
Equality and Taxes ' ( 2002 ) 54 ALR 460, 462 ; J. O , e Athenian Revolution: Essay on Ancient Greek Democracy and Political eory
Civic Obligations and Individual Liberty in Ancient Athens Posted: 1996
J
Mass and Elite: Rhetoric, Ideology, and the Power by the People Posted: 1989
C , &apos; Democracy
Equality and Taxes ' ( 2002 ) 54 ALR 460, 472 . Cf. Aristophanes, ' e Frogs ' in Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Aristophanes (series Great Books of the Western World), Encyclopaedia Britannica , p. 1065 - 1068 Posted: 1952
J
Mass and Elite: Rhetoric, Ideology, and the Power by the People Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,417
RANK
178,213
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies