Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Double-Entry Bookkeeping

This is a revision to an earlier paper.

31 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2018 Last revised: 4 Jun 2021

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 03, 2024

Abstract

We theorize that double-entry bookkeeping (DEB) was competitively selected by the standard evolutionary forces of variation between firms and selection for survival by the environment. While single-entry bookkeeping (SEB) recorded transactions in physical units only (e.g., cows, goats), DEB multiplied these units by prices and required that debits equal credits in monetary value for every transaction recorded. Early adopters switched from the older SEB for reasons that included improved recordkeeping, more prudent management, and social imitation. Whereas SEB recorded observed asset and liability changes, DEB made it easier to calculate profits for individual transactions and added revenue and expense accounts to record the causes of balance sheet changes and evaluate operating decisions. The causal identification of profit enabled by DEB improved discovery of future profit opportunities, which was crucial for business survival. We suggest future empirical tests for each element of our theory.

Keywords: Double-entry bookkeeping, economic exchange, profit measurement, discovery process, monetary unit of account

JEL Classification: M41, D23, D83, B15

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Waymire, Gregory B., The Evolution of Double-Entry Bookkeeping (September 03, 2024). This is a revision to an earlier paper., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3093303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3093303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
M Aguilar , G Lind , K Ramesh
The role of accounting in microenterprises. Working paper Posted: 2024
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory
Journal of Political Economy , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: an examination of the production and use of financial statements by privatelyheld small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2009
R Barker , S H Penman
Moving the Conceptual Framework forward: accounting for uncertainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 322 - 357 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
925
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,768
RANK
58,261
1 Citations
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies