Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cesses in the Indian Tax Regime: A Historical Analysis

Ashrita Kotha, 'Cesses in the Indian Tax Regime: A Historical Analysis' in Studies in History of Tax Law, Volume 8 (Hart Publishing, 2017)

30 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2018 Last revised: 10 Apr 2019

Ashrita Prasad Kotha

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: January 2, 2018

Abstract

The Constitution of India is quasi federal, a feature which is also apparent from the provisions regulating distribution of revenues between the union government and the various state governments. India’s ‘co-operative federalist’ fiscal structure has historically empowered the union and state governments to raise revenue by levying taxes, fees, cesses, surcharges, etc.

In the schedule to the Indian Constitution which delineates the legislative competence of the respective governments to impose taxes and fees, there is no mention of cess. That may be owing to the fact that a cess, as clarified by judicial precedents, is either a tax or a fee depending on the specific facts. The unique feature of a cess though is that it raises revenue for an earmarked purpose.

By virtue of a constitutional amendment in the year 2000 union cesses are not required to be shared with state governments. Recent enquiries into the usage of funds collected under the head of cess reveal a lack of accountability. This has resulted in the Fourteenth Finance Commission cautioning against the frequent usage of cesses. Even so, the union government has recently announced three new cesses with a proposal to introduce another one post the introduction of the goods and services tax.

This is an opportune time to undertake a study into the history of cesses in the Indian context. The following questions emerge for study: What does the Indian Constitution say about cesses? How is a cess different from a tax and fee? Why have successive governments imposed cesses? In the wake of the criticism that cesses have been met with, what does history reveal? Are there any lessons to be learnt?

Keywords: Cess, Earmarked tax, India

Suggested Citation:

Kotha, Ashrita Prasad, Cesses in the Indian Tax Regime: A Historical Analysis (January 2, 2018). Ashrita Kotha, 'Cesses in the Indian Tax Regime: A Historical Analysis' in Studies in History of Tax Law, Volume 8 (Hart Publishing, 2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Sharing of Union Tax Revenues
Thirteenth Finance Commission , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2009
B R S Sarkaria , S R Sivaraman , Sen
Obsolete Laws: Warranting Immediate Repeal
Commission on Centre-State Relations: Report (Sarkaria Commission) , volume 250 Posted: 1980-01
Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General for the year 2011 -12 , volume 13 Posted: 2013-08
Crossref
M Narasimham , H Reddy , Salve , Ahluwalia , Lahiri , S S Bp Mathur , Tarapore
Fiscal and Monetary Policies , volume 2 Posted: 2002-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,069
RANK
197,037
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies