Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dialectic of Stakeholder Engagement and Strategy Development at the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Gerry Kerr

University of Windsor

Alan J. Richardson

University of Windsor - Odette School of Business

Burkard Eberlein

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: January 16, 2018

Abstract

The development history of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is analyzed, the dominant standard-setter for sustainability reporting. The focus is trained on the organization’s intertwined stakeholder management and strategic management, revealing core ongoing tensions that both led and embodied organizational change. The GRI’s strategy was to cultivate and curate dialectics that resulted in a stream of sustainability measurement frameworks and supporting services for the organization, while reflecting an evolving social movement at the global level.

Keywords: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Historical Methods, Stakeholder Theory, Social Movement, Dialectic

JEL Classification: M48, M49, Z39

Suggested Citation:

Kerr, Gerry and Richardson, Alan J. and Eberlein, Burkard, The Dialectic of Stakeholder Engagement and Strategy Development at the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (January 16, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,126
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies