Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Psychology Theories in Archival Financial Accounting Research

McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-01-05

58 Pages Posted: 27 May 2002 Last revised: 5 Jul 2008

Lisa Koonce

University of Texas

Molly Mercer

DePaul University

Date Written: January 5, 2005

Abstract

Psychologists have studied human behavior for over a century and, as a result, have developed a robust set of theories regarding how people behave. Most financial accounting issues deal with matters of human behavior, such as the judgments and decisions of managers, investors, analysts, and auditors. Consequently, psychology offers a rich pool of theories from which financial accounting researchers can draw to motivate hypotheses and interpret results. Despite this, archival accounting researchers traditionally have relied almost solely on theories based in financial economics. We argue that two major obstacles to the use of psychology theories by archival researchers has been a lack of awareness about the theories that are available and when their use would be most productive. Our paper attempts to bridge this gap. Specifically, we describe a number of psychology theories that are applicable to financial accounting issues, lay out the circumstances where they may be especially useful to archival researchers, and provide a number of specific examples of how psychology theories provide new insights about financial accounting issues.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, earnings management, analyst forecasts, attribution theory, prospect theory, motivated reasoning, expertise

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M45, G14, G29

Suggested Citation:

Koonce, Lisa L. and Mercer, Molly, Using Psychology Theories in Archival Financial Accounting Research (January 5, 2005). McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-01-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=311105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.311105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
124 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Allais
Le comportement de l'homme rationnel devant le risqué, critique des postulats et axioms de l' école Américaine
Econometrica , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 503 - 546 Posted: 1953
Crossref
G Allport
The nature of prejudice Posted: 1954
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,913
ABSTRACT VIEWS
27,888
RANK
4,353
21 Citations
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies