Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Control in the Founding of the New Settlements of Sierra Morena and Andalucia (1767-1772)

Posted: 4 Nov 2002

Concha Álvarez-Dardet Espejo

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Juan Banos Sánchez-Matamoros

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Francisco Carrasco Fenech

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Abstract

Recently, critical studies of accounting history have capitalized on new interpretations of the role of accounting in society and government (for example, Hopper and Armstrong, 1991; Miller, 1990; Miller and Napier, 1993). In particular, Foucauldian analyses of the evolution of cost accounting techniques among nineteenth-century, and to a lesser extent twentieth-century, manufacturers in Britain and the U.S. have occasioned vigorous historical debate amongst accounting historians. Disagreements have centered around the relevance for accounting of Foucault's views on the relationship between power and knowledge (Armstrong, 1994; Neimark, 1994). This paper attempts to extend Foucauldian analysis beyond the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to the eighteenth, in particular to relate it to the Enlightenment (as in, for example, Carmona et al., 1997); to move beyond cost accounting; and to apply the concept of rationalization of government to the role of accounting in governing wisely (Ezzamel et al., 1990; Rose, 1991).

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, N00

Suggested Citation:

Álvarez-Dardet Espejo, Concha and Sánchez-Matamoros, Juan Banos and Carrasco Fenech, Francisco, Accounting and Control in the Founding of the New Settlements of Sierra Morena and Andalucia (1767-1772). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=314024
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies