Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking Journals Using Social Science Research Network Downloads

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Vol. 20, No. 3, 2003

17 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2002 Last revised: 9 Mar 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

I use a new approach to rank journals, namely the number and percent frequency of articles a journal publishes that are heavily downloaded from the Social Science Research Network (SSRN). I rank 18 accounting and finance journals, and I identify five journals not considered by the two most recent major published ranking studies of publications by accounting faculty, namely (in rank order): Journal of Financial Economics, Review of Accounting Studies, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Journal of Corporate Finance, and Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting. I show that financial accounting faculties are more likely to post their working papers to SSRN, and papers posted by financial faculties generate more downloads. I mitigate this bias in favor of the financial area by providing separate rankings based on authors in the financial versus non-financial areas.

JEL Classification: M40, A0

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D., Ranking Journals Using Social Science Research Network Downloads. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Vol. 20, No. 3, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=314577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.314577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
17 Citations
Lawrence A. Cunningham
Scholarly Profit Margins and the Legal Scholarship Network: Reflections on the Web
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2005
Crossref
Edward P. Swanson
Publishing in the Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing
Edward P. Swanson. 2004. Publishing in the Business Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing, Contemporary Accounting Research (Vol. 21 Issue 1, Spring): 223-55. · 40 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2002 · Downloads: 2,698
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brad Tuttle , Jesse Dillard
Beyond Competition: Institutional Isomorphism in U.S. Accounting Research
Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 387 Posted: 2007
Crossref
David Pontille , Didier Torny
Revues qui comptent, revues qu’on compte :produire des classements en économie et gestion
Revue de la régulation , volume 8 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,796
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,518
RANK
22,034
17 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Influential Accounting Articles, Individuals, Ph.D. Granting Institutions and Faculties: A Citational Analysis

By Lawrence D. Brown

Doubly Disadvantaged or an Exception to the Rules? Minority Women in Accounting Academia

By Margaret Lightbody, Amelia A. Baldwin, ...

Mainstreams, Monsters and Global Accounting

By Fabrizio Panozzo

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies