Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Charities - An Introduction

Accounting History, 2016, Vol 21 (2-3), pp 139 - 143

Posted: 16 Apr 2018

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Stefania Servalli

University of Bergamo

Date Written: March 21, 2016

Abstract

It has long been recognized that governments world-wide, and the State, will support charities with financial support because the charities operate to offer functions which would otherwise have to be undertaken by the government. When the call was made for papers for this special issue, the guest editors hoped for a range of approaches and a range of time and jurisdictional analysis, but the latter was not the case. Two of the papers here are based on Italian charitable organizations, the others all from English-speaking jurisdictions.

Such a result recognizes that further explorations should be made to provide other geographic perspectives. If English-speaking areas can be thus analysed in the light of its features, the European continent surely deserves more investigation. Indeed, Europe with its plurality of nationalities and its social-political characteristics has always been a heterogeneous context, with a variety of philanthropic impulses. The same Italian area (represented in this Special Issue by two works), if traced in historical dimension, cannot be considered as a whole, representing a nation that is the result of a unification of previous States or City-States. Charities emerging in different Italian cities represent expressions of different ways to organize the underlying response based on caritas.

There were no papers received on any history of accounting for, or by, a charity in countries which are low on the OECD tables. Any research by academics, if done at all in these nation states, is scarcely funded, but an examination of the drivers for indigenous charity in developing countries would offer the reader an appreciation of the universality of altruism, well-established in socio-biological literature. May we look towards further explorations on this theme in Accounting History, and hope that PhD students among others reading this issue are encouraged to provide such insights. In this regard, a full examination of previous decades of research contributions on charities, specifically and more generally on related charitable organizations of diverse structures in accounting history, will be pivotal to unveiling “unexplored lands”, and to boosting further research on the full dimensions of accounting, accountability, auditing and governance.

Keywords: charities, accounting, financial reporting, history of charities

JEL Classification: N80, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Servalli, Stefania, Accounting and Charities - An Introduction (March 21, 2016). Accounting History, 2016, Vol 21 (2-3), pp 139 - 143, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3146673
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies