Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Historians Engaging with Scholars Inside and Outside Accounting: Issues, Opportunities and Obstacles

Accounting History, Volume 22 issue 4, pp. 403-424

Posted: 2 Apr 2018

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Nieves Carrera

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Delfina Gomes

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Alessandro Lai

University of Verona

Lee D. Parker

RMIT University

Date Written: August 22, 2017

Abstract

Originating in a panel presentation at the eighth Accounting History International Conference, this study offers a reflection on the issues, opportunities and obstacles which may arise when accounting historians engage with other accounting scholars and scholars outside of accounting.

Supporting the view that accounting scholars need and should make an effort to engage with other scholars inside and outside accounting, various aspects are considered as enhancing the interdisciplinarity of accounting history research.

Then, issues such as researchers and the community, research problems, theories, methods and data are addressed. The opportunities arising from interdisciplinary interactions with a wide range of scholars are then developed. Finally, the potential obstacles are addressed.

Interdisciplinarity has enhanced the growth of accounting history research (Carnegie and Napier, 2012). This is particularly accentuated by the growing call for studying accounting as a social practice (see, for example, Burchell et al., 1994; Carnegie and Napier, 1996; Gomes, 2008; Hopwood, 2005; Miller, 1994; Potter, 2005), which significantly expanded the domain of accounting. Within accounting history research, new research topics, research approaches and the use of different theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches drawn from other disciplines have increased the potentialities and dimensions of the investigations undertaken (Gomes, 2008). Nonetheless, ‘much historical accounting research continues to use conventional economic and functionalist explanations to provide a theoretical underpinning that helps to make sense of the evidence’ (Carnegie and Napier, 2017: 74).

In fact, mainstream accounting research does not embrace this social conception of accounting and, as stated by Merchant (2008), ‘Currently, in the United States, accounting research using economics-based paradigms, theories, and jargon and using either analytical research methods or analysis of large samples of archival (“objective”) data rules the roost’ (p. 901). Despite this, and aligned with the so-called ‘interdisciplinary and critical perspectives on accounting’ project (Broadbent and Laughlin, 2013; Carnegie and Napier, 2017), accounting history research is seen as inherently interdisciplinary and as adopting innovative theoretical frameworks.

However, as suggested by Gomes et al. (2011) (see also, Gomes et al., 2015), a practical strategy for enhancing the impact of accounting history research is to foster the engagement with diverse groups of scholars, both accounting researchers and scholars from other disciplines. This study aims to stimulate and call for interdisciplinary accounting history research. In fact, this study clearly supports the view that accounting historians need and should make an effort to engage with other scholars inside and outside accounting.

Nonetheless, and although accounting historians have been stimulated previously to engage with other scholars and interdisciplinarity has been advocated, it is necessary to consider how accounting historians may foster this engagement and to debate the issues and obstacles, and the interesting opportunities for accounting and accounting history research of the genre.

The following structure is adopted in this study. First, three aspects are considered for enhancing the interdisciplinarity of accounting history research: (1) the coming of age, (2) expanding horizons and (3) the window of time, all of which portray aspects of the accounting history academy. Then, we address particular issues that need to be considered by accounting historians when aiming to integrate insights from other disciplines and to engage with scholars both within and outside accounting.

The opportunities arising from interdisciplinary interactions are then reviewed. Finally, the potential obstacles which may prevent accounting scholars from engaging in interdisciplinary research are addressed. These obstacles can be overcome by the development of robust communication and the invention of a new genre of discourse and research focus and by working with those outside our discipline and embracing the challenge of the new and the different.

Keywords: accounting, accounting history, accounting history research and publication, interdisciplinary accounting history

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Carrera Pena, Maria Nieves and Gomes, Delfina and Lai, Alessandro and Parker, Lee D., Accounting Historians Engaging with Scholars Inside and Outside Accounting: Issues, Opportunities and Obstacles (August 22, 2017). Accounting History, Volume 22 issue 4, pp. 403-424, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3146707
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
683
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies