Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Knowledge Production Process and Annual Report Readability Research: A Critical Synthesis

Posted: 31 Mar 2018 Last revised: 27 Aug 2020

Ekaete Efretuei

Liverpool Business School, Liverpool John Moores University

Date Written: March 26, 2018

Abstract

Readability research has been predominantly static since its introduction into accounting research in the 1950s. This has changed in recent years with an increasing number of readability studies published in accounting Journals. This study examines the knowledge production process in the accounting research academic discipline, using annual report readability (ARR) research as illustrative evidence. A conceptual framework is developed by synthesizing the social influence pressure method of analysis (Milgram 1974) and Whitley’s (2000) theory of ‘mutual dependence’ and ‘task uncertainty’. This research explores the association between knowledge production in ARR research and its intellectual environment. A positive association is found between ARR research citations and the publication of readability research in the ‘Journal of Accounting and Economics’ in 2008. ARR research appears to have advanced by supporting a neoclassical economics-inspired narrative. This study contributes to the accounting research literature by using the observed evidence in ARR research to support the widely studied hypothesis that knowledge production is socially constructed. The hypothesis has been widely debated, but with limited illustrative evidence. The study also offers a theoretical framework for analysing the knowledge production process.

Keywords: Knowledge Production, Readability, Intellectual Environment

JEL Classification: M00, M4

Suggested Citation:

Efretuei, Ekaete, The Knowledge Production Process and Annual Report Readability Research: A Critical Synthesis (March 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3150006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3150006
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies