Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Usury and Credit Practices in Italy in the Middle Ages

Accounting and Culture Review, 23 April 2018 - Special Issue: Banks and Financial Institutions in Historical Perspective, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Stefano Adamo

University of Salento

David J. A. Alexander

University of Birmingham Business School

Roberta Fasiello

University of Salento Department of Economics, Management, Mathematics and Statistics

Date Written: January 31, 2017

Abstract

This paper presents a historical investigation of usury in the context of the development of credit activities. The definition of usury and the attitudes towards usury changed multiple times over the centuries. We focus on the 12th to the 14th centuries and the changes in the operating, economic and reporting practices resulting from changes in the economy - from subsistence farming to sophisticated international trading. We analyse the relationship between the Church’s usury prohibitions and the development of trading and credit. As a one-sentence summary of our conclusions, we can claim that during the 14th century usury was radically condemned only in theory, but despite this prohibition the Church was not able to contain the spread and the development of credit, and merchants made operations charging interest in the substance of the operations, whilst concealing the existence of interest in visible formal terms.

Keywords: Middle Ages, Usury, Credit Practices, Church, Lenders, Italy

Suggested Citation:

Adamo, Stefano and Alexander, David J. A. and Fasiello, Roberta, Usury and Credit Practices in Italy in the Middle Ages (January 31, 2017). Accounting and Culture Review, 23 April 2018 - Special Issue: Banks and Financial Institutions in Historical Perspective, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3167871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,952
RANK
359,301
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies