Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Story of Schlude: The Origins of the Tax/Financial Accounting Ga(A)P

TAX STORIES: AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT TEN LEADING FEDERAL INCOME TAX CASES, Foundation Press, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Jul 2002

Russell K. Osgood

Grinnell College

Abstract

This paper presents the story of Schlude v. Commissioner, 372 U.S. 128 (1963), the third in a trilogy of cases that established emphatically that tax accounting under the Internal Revenue Code may differ from generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Drawing upon the parties' briefs and oral arguments before the U.S. Supreme Court, judicial opinions in other cases, and recent scholarly commentary, it describes what was really involved in the case, the government's and taxpayer's litigation strategies, the decision-making processes of the courts, and the case's impact on the development of the tax law. Indeed, with reports of accounting scofflaws like Enron, Global Crossing, Tyco International, WorldCom, and Xerox dominating national attention in recent weeks, this is a particularly propitious time to re-examine the Schlude trilogy's sanctioning of departures in tax accounting from GAAP. The paper will be published as a chapter in a book to be entitled Tax Stories: An In-Depth Look at Ten Leading Federal Income Tax Cases (Foundation Press, forthcoming 2002). Additional financial support for the project has been provided by the American Tax Policy Institute.

The paper will be published as a chapter in a book to be entitled Tax Stories: An In-Depth Look at Ten Leading Federal Income Tax Cases (Foundation Press). Additional financial support for the project has been provided by the American Tax Policy Institute.

Suggested Citation:

Osgood, Russell K., The Story of Schlude: The Origins of the Tax/Financial Accounting Ga(A)P. TAX STORIES: AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT TEN LEADING FEDERAL INCOME TAX CASES, Foundation Press, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=321060
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies