Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reflections on the State of Accounting Research and the Regulation of Accounting

Stanford Lectures In Accounting, pp. 11-19, 1976

27 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2002

Michael C. Jensen (Deceased)

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); SSRN; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Abstract

I have two separate but related topics to cover today. The first is a critical appraisal of the state of accounting research, and the second is an analysis of current trends in the regulation of accounting practices and where they are leading us.

Research in accounting has been (with one or two notable exceptions) unscientific. Why? Because the focus of this research has been overwhelmingly normative and definitional. As a result, the field has produced remarkably little theory or evidence bearing on positive issues. I am not claiming that accounting lacks theories. Quite the contrary; accountants promulgate theories (Edwards and Bell [1961], Sprouse and Moonitz [1962], Chambers [1966], ASOBAT [1966], Ijiri [1967], Sterling [1970]), as rapidly as the SEC increases disclosure requirements. But in accounting the term theory has come to mean normative proposition.

I do not intend my emphasis here on positive analysis to imply that normative issues regarding what should be are unimportant. Neither academics nor professionals, however, will make significant progress in obtaining answers to the normative questions they continue to ask until they make a more serious attempt to develop a body of positive theory. It is in this sense that I believe much of what is classified as accounting research is useless. The dearth of positive theory explains the almost complete lack of impact of normative accounting research on professional practice. Furthermore, the belief held by many professionals that the new Professional Schools of Accounting will somehow improve accounting research, itself implies a disappointment with the payoffs from past accounting research. This failure has not been quite as dramatic in the managerial accounting area where issues such as capital budgeting and transfer pricing have received considerable attention.

Suggested Citation:

Jensen (Deceased), Michael C., Reflections on the State of Accounting Research and the Regulation of Accounting. Stanford Lectures In Accounting, pp. 11-19, 1976, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=321522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.321522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Committee on Basic Accounting "Theory, A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory Posted: 1966
Crossref
Raymond Ball , Philip Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 77 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Raymond Ball , Ross Watts
Some Time Series Properties of Accounting Income
Journal of Finance , p. 663 - 82 Posted: 1972-06
Crossref
William H Beaver
What Should be the FASB's Objectives?
Journal of Accountancy , p. 49 - 56 Posted: 1973-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,580
RANK
9,106
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Negotiation, Organizations & Markets Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies