Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Parliamentary Involvement in the Conclusion of Tax Treaties in Japan

Brian J. Arnold, ed., Tax Treaties After the BEPS Project: A Tribute to Jacques Sasseville (Toronto: Canadian Tax Foundation, 2018)

14 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2018

Yoshihiro Masui

The University of Tokyo, Graduate Schools for Law and Politics

Date Written: August 29, 2018

Abstract

This chapter, which is part of my broader inquiry into the history of Japan’s tax treaties, traces the historical development of parliamentary involvement in the conclusion of tax treaties in Japan, spanning its 130 years of constitutional politics.

The first modern constitution in Japan was promulgated in 1889. The 1889 Meiji Constitution guaranteed basic human rights and separation of powers. However, unlike contemporary constitutions in Europe, the 1889 constitution did not require the Imperial Diet’s consent for the conclusion of treaties. The chapter begins by examining the debate that arose in the late 19th century regarding this constitutional structure.

After the Second World War, in 1946, Japan adopted a new constitution, which remains unchanged today. Under the 1946 constitution, the Cabinet must obtain approval of the Diet for the conclusion of treaties. The chapter then explores the trend to reduce the scope of the Diet’s substantive involvement in concluding tax treaties in order to ratify treaties in a more expeditious manner.

The chapter concludes by pointing out three specific areas for improvement.

Keywords: Tax treaty, Parliament, Constitution

JEL Classification: H77, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Masui, Yoshihiro, Parliamentary Involvement in the Conclusion of Tax Treaties in Japan (August 29, 2018). Brian J. Arnold, ed., Tax Treaties After the BEPS Project: A Tribute to Jacques Sasseville (Toronto: Canadian Tax Foundation, 2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3240305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Shunji Yanai
Practical Needs for Treaties and Democratic Control over the Treaty-Making Process" (1979) 78:4 Kokusaiho Gaiko Zasshi
Journal of International Law and Diplomacy
Yoshihiro Masui
Interaction Between Tax Treaties and Domestic Law in Japan-The Role of a Coordinating Statute
Celebrating Twenty Years of the International Tax Program of the New York University School of Law , p. 335 - 382 Posted: 1996
Japan
Proceedings of the 61st Diet, House of Representatives, Finance Committee no Posted: 1969
Hiroshi Kaneko
Tax Sparing Credit in the Tax Treaty
Sozeiho Riron No Keisei To Kaimei [Formation and Study of Tax Law Theory Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
470,088
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies