Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Field of Accounting Regulation in Brazil during the Adoption of the IFRS

37 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2018

Paulo Frederico Homero Junior

Independent

Edson Luiz Riccio, E L Riccio

Universidade de Sao Paulo

Date Written: October 5, 2018

Abstract

In 2010, Brazil completed the convergence towards the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). As the politics of this process has been little explored, in this paper we draw on the Bourdieusian concepts of field, capital and habitus to investigate how the field of accounting regulation was re-constituted during the adoption of the IFRS in Brazil. Through discursive analyses of several archival data, including parliamentary proceedings and documents issued by institutional agents, we investigate the reconstitution of this field from the early-2000s on, when discussions about the creation of a private standard-setter began. Our investigation indicates that the efforts to approve the legislative reforms necessary for the adoption of the IFRS were characterised by a high level of discursive homogeneity: it was claimed that such an adoption would enhance the transparency, comprehensibility, comparability and reliability of the financial reports of Brazilian firms, attracting foreign investments and promoting the economic development of the country. However, none of these claims was supported by substantive empirical evidences. Initially, the Federal Council of Accounting (Conselho Federal de Contabilidade – CFC) opposed the creation of a private standard-setter, claiming that it would undermine the self-regulation of the accountancy profession. In October 2005, though, the CFC itself created the Committee of Accounting Pronouncements (Comitê de Pronunciamentos Contábeis – CPC), apparently solving the conflict that had structured the field until then. The influence of taxation on Brazilian accounting practices played a pivotal role in this process, as a common adversary that justified the alliance between the CFC and the capital market pole. As the CPC frames itself as only a translator and interpreter of the IFRS, the field as a whole is not a space of power anymore, given that substantive decisions in the standard-setting process are not made in Brazil. Nevertheless, some regulators still challenge CPC’s hegemony, requiring firms under their jurisdictions to prepare and disclose alternative sets of accounts. Contributing for a deeper understanding about the role of local agents in the adoption of the IFRS, we suggest that in Brazil this process was conducted by an interpretative community constituted some decades ago, whose agents exchanged the symbolic capital they previously possessed for the economic capital they earned through the expansion of the market for accounting services.

Keywords: Accounting regulation field, IFRS adoption, Linguistic habitus, Accounting history

JEL Classification: M41, M48, N26

Suggested Citation:

Homero Junior, Paulo Frederico and Riccio, Edson Luiz, The Field of Accounting Regulation in Brazil during the Adoption of the IFRS (October 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3261306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3261306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
J Agripino
Parecer n o 987, de 2001, da Comissão de Constituição, Justiça e Cidadania. Diário Do Senado Federal , p. 21958 - 21990 Posted: 2001-09-14
J L O Almeida Filho
Notas taquigráficas da 8 a Reunião da Comissão de Constituição, Justiça e Cidadania, da 3 a Sessão Legislativa Ordinária, da 51 a Legislatura Posted: 2001
B Appy
Notas taquigráficas da Audiência Pública n o 584/2005 -Comissão de Finanças e Tributação. Brasília: Câmara dos Deputados Posted: 2005
P J Arnold
The political economy of financial harmonization: The East Asian financial crisis and the rise of international accounting standards. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 37 , issue 6 , p. 361 - 381 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
708,404
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies