Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Influence of Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 1985-1999

Posted: 9 Nov 2002

Jack L. Krogstad

Creighton University - Department of Accounting

Gerald Smith

University of Northern Iowa - Department of Accounting

Abstract

This study utilizes citation analysis to explore the impact and standing of Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (AJPT) both within the accounting/auditing discipline and in the context of related fields. More specifically, the citations to AJPT from other journals included in the Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI), plus citations appearing in additional, high quality accounting/auditing journals (not included in the SSCI) are combined with self-citations to yield a database of 3,102 citations for the period 1985 through 2000. This database is analyzed to observe trends and to identify journals citing AJPT most frequently. Additionally, articles and authors cited most widely are enumerated. AJPT's growing influence and stature are documented, and the results support the conclusion that the Auditing Section's journal has continued to adhere to its essential objective of promoting communication between auditing research and practice.

Keywords: citation analysis, citations, impact factor, auditing literature

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Krogstad, Jack L. and Smith, Gerald, Assessing the Influence of Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 1985-1999. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=326380
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,437
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies