Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Board of Referees: ‘A Most Useful Addition to Fiscal Machinery’

Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan, eds., Studies in the History of Tax Law vol. 7 (Oxford: Hart, 2015)

24 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018

Dominic de Cogan

University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law

Lynne M. Oats

University of Exeter - Tax Administration Research Centre (TARC)

Mark Billings

University of Nottingham

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

In this chapter we examine the Board of Referees, an innovative administrative body established in 1915 with the remit of resolving certain questions relating to the assessment of the wartime Excess Profits Duty. The Board is particularly notable for its composition of eminent members of the practical trades, as well as professional accountants and even the occasional MP. We argue that the Board addressed certain shortcomings of the administrative architecture of the time, in particular the absence of an obvious way to control or counterbalance the great expansion of Inland Revenue discretions during wartime. We also highlight the support that the Board provided to the tax authorities with their ready commercial expertise and their ability to buy the wider business community into a tax that could have been very controversial. In terms of the legal framework, the Board was carefully designed but did undergo a significant degree of scope creep, particularly in 1922 which is when our study ends. The debates of the time have some resemblance – and therefore relevance – to recent discussions about the General Anti-Abuse Rule Panel, but the parallels should not be exaggerated.

Keywords: tax law; tax history; accounting history; excess profits duty; first world war; public administration

Suggested Citation:

de Cogan, Dominic and Oats, Lynne M. and Billings, Mark, The Board of Referees: ‘A Most Useful Addition to Fiscal Machinery’ (September 10, 2015). Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan, eds., Studies in the History of Tax Law vol. 7 (Oxford: Hart, 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3289687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
HM Revenue & Customs, General Anti-Abuse Rule (GAAR) Advisory Panel: Terms of Reference Posted: 2013-05
Crossref
C Fuller
GAAR Panel Membership Announced', Accountancy Age Posted: 2013-07-22
Crossref
HM Revenue & Customs, 'Our Governance
Crossref
N Huber
Experts Doubt Impact of New GAAR Legislation', accountingweb Posted: 2013-07-19
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
RANK
834,175
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies