Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Law and Administration in Capital Allowances Doctrine: 1878 to 1950

John Tiley, ed., Studies in the History of Tax Law vol. 6 (Oxford: Hart, 2013)

51 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018

Dominic de Cogan

University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 31, 2013

Abstract

This Chapter reviews the law and administration of capital allowances, from the introduction of a general plant and machinery allowance in 1878 to the first few years of operation of the prototype modern system of the Income Tax Act 1945. It is discovered that the period, far from representing an idyll of pre-modern simplicity, witnessed a ferment of experimentation and debate on the nature of asset depreciation, the extent to which it should be recognised for tax purposes and the regulatory means by which any relief should be implemented. In turn this points to a rich and diverse intellectual history from which both ideas and stern warnings might be drawn by tax reformers looking for escape routes from our present reliance on fine statutory detail.

Keywords: tax law; capital allowances; tax history; accounting history

Suggested Citation:

de Cogan, Dominic, Law and Administration in Capital Allowances Doctrine: 1878 to 1950 (July 31, 2013). John Tiley, ed., Studies in the History of Tax Law vol. 6 (Oxford: Hart, 2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3289685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Rule 3 of Schedule D Case I, contained within section 100 of the ITA 1842
Rule 2 of the rules applying to Schedule D Cases I and II
Section 24(4) of the Finance Act Posted: 1918
Report of the Royal Commission 1920, above fn , volume 63
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,616
RANK
470,088
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies