Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finances of the Nation: 'Final and Unalterable' — But Up for Negotiation: Federal-Provincial Transfers in Canada

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 4, 2018

48 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2019

Trevor Tombe

University of Calgary - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 13, 2018

Abstract

For almost 60 years, the Canadian Tax Foundation published an annual monograph, Finances of the Nation, and its predecessor, The National Finances. In a change of format, the 2014 Canadian Tax Journal introduced a new "Finances of the Nation" feature, which presents annual surveys of provincial and territorial budgets, and topical articles on taxation and public expenditures in Canada.

In this article, Trevor Tombe explores the history of federal-provincial transfers in Canada. He compiles and analyzes uniquely detailed data from Confederation to the present showing that (1) explicit transfers to provincial governments are more equally distributed today than they have been throughout most of Canada's history, and (2) while overall federal tax and spending activities currently redistribute just under 2 percent of Canada's gross domestic product across provinces, this is the lowest level in the past six decades. Tombe proposes a uniform methodology to quantify and analyze explicit and implicit fiscal transfers, discusses the design of today's transfer programs and the pressures that they must withstand, and suggests some changes that might be considered in future reforms.

The underlying data for the Finances of the Nation monographs and the articles in this journal will be published online in the near future.


Keywords: Transfer Payments, Federal-Provincial, Fiscal, Equalization, Federalism, Spending

Suggested Citation:

Tombe, Trevor, Finances of the Nation: 'Final and Unalterable' — But Up for Negotiation: Federal-Provincial Transfers in Canada (December 13, 2018). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3309712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,196
RANK
180,250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies