Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Profession:Throw Back, Throw In and Throw Out

33 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2019

Prof. Onafowokan Oluyombo

Pan Atlantic University

Date Written: Janaury 31, 2019

Abstract

This lecture reveals the summary of my major contributions to the field of Accounting based on my experience in the industry, and more importantly as an academic. It is the story of my career in Accounting that led to my elevation and appointment as the first Professor in Accounting in Pan Atlantic University, the first Professor in the Department of Accounting of PAU, and of course the first Chartered Accountant to be appointed a Professor by the University.

Keywords: Accounting, Inaugural, Lecture, Professor

Suggested Citation:

Oluyombo, Onafowokan, The Accounting Profession:Throw Back, Throw In and Throw Out (Janaury 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3343442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3343442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Abioye
Book Review: Non-Interest (Islamic) Banking: Principles and Practice by Onafowokan Oluyombo
ICAN Students' Journal , volume 9 , issue 4 Posted: 2004
S Aina
Banking and Bankers: Looking Back, Looking Ahead. Lagos: Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria Posted: 2014
Segun Aina , Onafowokan Oluyombo
The Economy of Financial Inclusion in Nigeria: Theory, Practice and Policy
CIBN Occasional Papers Series. Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. i-32. Pages: 14 Posted: 22 Dec 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Bilewomo
A Book for Debtors and Creditors
Tell Newsmagazine , issue 2 Posted: 2007-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
RANK
713,739
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies