Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A. C. Littleton’s Final Thoughts on Accounting: A Collection of Unpublished Essays

Emerald Studies in the Development of Accounting Thought, 2016

Posted: 22 Apr 2019

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 22, 2016

Abstract

This edited volume represents Ananias Charles Littleton’s (1886-1974) final monograph on accounting theory. Its purpose is twofold. It is a continuation of his seminal monographs Accounting Evolution to 1900 (1933), Structure of Accounting Theory (1953), and Introduction to Corporate Accounting Standards (with William A. Paton, 1940). It is also a response to some of Littleton’s fiercest critics, such as Raymond J. Chambers, Robert Sterling, and William T. Baxter. The volume constitutes his last “excursion into accounting theory.” It marks Littleton’s concluding attempt to examine aspects of accounting practices with the goal of inductively deriving “… elements of implicit logic capable of convincingly demonstrating the existence of natural interrelations between accounting actions and ideas.” There is evidence that Littleton had intentions to publish this edited volume and talks were ongoing with a publisher in 1972. With Littleton’s passing less than two years later, however, these negotiations lapsed. When Littleton’s personal papers were donated to the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign Archives in 1997, a carbon copy of the manuscript appears to have gone unnoticed with other items of correspondence, publications, and teaching material. The present editor rediscovered this carbon copy in the summer of 2014, and it is now being published as an edited volume in Emerald Group Publishing’s Studies in Development of Accounting Thought Series.

Keywords: A. C. Littleton, Accounting History, Accounting Theory, University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel, A. C. Littleton’s Final Thoughts on Accounting: A Collection of Unpublished Essays (March 22, 2016). Emerald Studies in the Development of Accounting Thought, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358565
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies