Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History of African Accounting Thoughts and Development: Evidences from Igbo Land

Onuoha, L. N. & Enyi, E. P. (2019), History of African Accounting Thoughts and Development: Evidences from Igbo Land, Archives of Business Research, Vol. 7(1), DOI:10.14738/abr.71.5942

22 Pages Posted: 1 May 2019

Luke N. Onuoha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Enyi Patrick Enyi

Babcock University - School of Management Sciences

Date Written: March 30, 2019

Abstract

The aim of this paper was to present the history of accounting thought in Africa with particular focus on Igbo land. The study is carried out via desk research. Secondary sources from journals, textbooks, internet sources and oral accounts have been adopted. The study reveals that Igbo people had a rich history of accounting thought which has remained partially documented. In some ways, accounting development experience of the Igbos was similar to the pre-history period experience of Mesopotamia, Egypt and other early civilizations as there were unique methods in the use of notches on sticks, vertical and horizontal marks on the wall, use of counters made of pebbles, grains and palm kernel stored in calabashes and wooden boxes as measurements of wealth. The 1494 double entry system published by Luca Pacioli, an Italian monk and mathematician, which brought sweeping changes in the method of recording business transactions across Europe and America, similarly affected the development of accounting in Nigeria. Also the formation of accounting bodies in Europe and America between 1854 and 1897 influenced similar developments in Nigeria which culminated in 1960 to the formation of the Association of Accountants in Nigeria and subsequently the charter of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) by the Parliament in 1965. The formation of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) in 1979 added the dimension of internationality and comparability to the reporting quality in Nigeria. This paper will be of critical significance to accounting history researchers and students.

Keywords: History of African Accounting; Accounting Development; Accounting Thought; African Tax System; Igbo Number System

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Onuoha, Luke N. and Enyi, Enyi Patrick, History of African Accounting Thoughts and Development: Evidences from Igbo Land (March 30, 2019). Onuoha, L. N. & Enyi, E. P. (2019), History of African Accounting Thoughts and Development: Evidences from Igbo Land, Archives of Business Research, Vol. 7(1), DOI:10.14738/abr.71.5942, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3362947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3362947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
C Achebe
Things Fall Apart Posted: 1958
A R Anao
An introduction to financial accounting Posted: 1996
D P S Asechemie
A history of accounting in Nigeria Posted: 1992
O Benjamin
Studies in Accountancy, text and readings Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,320
RANK
78,964
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Anthropology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies