Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competency-Based Education and Assessment for the Accounting Profession: A Critical Review

Posted: 21 Jan 2003

Carla Carnaghan

University of Lethbridge - Faculty of Management

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

In recent years many professional accounting associations have become interested in establishing competency-based professional requirements and assessment methods for certifying accounting professionals. A competency-based approach to qualification specifies expectations in terms of outcomes, or what an individual can accomplish, rather than in terms of knowledge or other capabilities possessed by the individual. This idea has an obvious appeal to many practitioners and administrators of professional qualification programs. However, there is limited knowledge about competency-based approaches in the accounting profession and among accounting academics, constraining discussion about the value of these approaches and about the strengths and weaknesses of the different competency models that have sprung up in various jurisdictions.

In this paper we review and synthesize the literature on competency-based approaches. We identify a number of theoretical benefits of competency-based approaches. However, we also find many alternative definitions and philosophies underlying competency-based approaches, and a variety of visions of how competencies should be determined and assessed. We note that there is limited evidence supporting many competency-based approaches and we identify 14 research questions that could be investigated to help policy makers to more effectively address policy matters related to competency-based education and assessment.

Keywords: competency, education, accounting, assessment

JEL Classification: M40, I21

Suggested Citation:

Carnaghan, Carla and Boritz, Efrim, Competency-Based Education and Assessment for the Accounting Profession: A Critical Review. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=337662
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies