Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The History of Shareholder Primacy, from Adam Smith through the Rise of Financialism

In Beate Sjåfjell and Christopher M. Bruner (eds), Cambridge Handbook of Corporate Law, Corporate Governance and Sustainability (Cambridge University Press, 2019), Chapter 6.

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2019-11

20 Pages Posted: 8 May 2019 Last revised: 6 Jan 2021

Judd F. Sneirson

Southern University Law Center

Date Written: May 6, 2019

Abstract

Standing in the way of sustainable business efforts is the belief that corporate fiduciaries must work to maximize shareholder wealth at all costs. American corporate law in fact imposes no such obligation, yet shareholder wealth maximization remains a powerful social norm. This chapter explores the history of the shareholder primacy norm, tracing the idea from its inception, to its famous articulation in the classic case of Dodge v. Ford, through the influence of the law and economics movement and the rise of financialism at the end of the last century. The chapter then examines the current debate over shareholder primacy, sustainability, and corporate social responsibility, arguing that shareholder primacy has peaked in the United States and is meeting resistance internationally. A new norm of enlightened stakeholderism, I argue, is on the rise, pursuant to which firms aim to be not just profitable but environmentally and socially responsible, as well.




Keywords: shareholder primacy, law and economics, corporate social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Sneirson, Judd F., The History of Shareholder Primacy, from Adam Smith through the Rise of Financialism (May 6, 2019). In Beate Sjåfjell and Christopher M. Bruner (eds), Cambridge Handbook of Corporate Law, Corporate Governance and Sustainability (Cambridge University Press, 2019), Chapter 6., University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2019-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3383405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
however, in a straightforward application of the business judgment rule. Id. at 684. 58 See section 2, above. The court's intrusion into the Ford board's dividend decision runs contrary to modern corporate law, specifically the business judgment rule. E.g., Kamin v , volume 383 , p. 811 - 823
Stout
Stop Teaching Dodge" (lamenting the case's prominence)
D G Id ; Citing , Smith
The Shareholder Primacy Norm")
E G Bainbridge , Corporation Law
2 (stating that Dodge's "theory of shareholder wealth maximization has been widely accepted by courts over an extended period of time , volume 9
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
752
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,936
RANK
77,192
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies