Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Historical View of an Accounting Control System 'from the Inside': Shirley Jackson's 'My Life with R. H. Macy'

Posted: 25 Oct 2002

Dan N. Stone

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Susan Mertzlufft-Curtis

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Adel Nematallah Ibrahim

Alexandria University - College of Commerce - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Herein, we present a brief case that follows the recommendations of previous accounting research (e.g., Dorocak and Purvis (1998); Crumbley, and Smith (2000); Stone (2001a, 2001b)) to "experiment" with the use of literature in accounting education. Specifically, this case introduces first-year or lower-division accounting students to an untrained user's experience with a pre-automated accounting information system. Cases and textbook analyses of accounting control systems are generally written "from the outside". That is, they analyze accounting control systems from the perspective of a detached, neutral accountant-outsider who uses the structures and language of accounting to identify the systems components and interrelationships (cf. (Evered and Louis 1981)). Shirley Jackson's 1941 short story - written "from the inside" of an accounting control system - is a "lived account" of her experience of the retail accounting system at Macy's Department Store during the 1940 Christmas rush season. Jackson's brief story also offers students insight into the history and evolution of accounting systems, and, into the commonality of and differences between users' experiences in the manual and automated eras. An attitudinal survey of 124 students in undergraduate accounting systems and controls classes suggests that students enjoyed and perceived that they learned from the case.

Keywords: accounting education, narrative, accounting controls, accounting systems, case studies

JEL Classification: A0, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Stone, Dan N. and Mertzlufft-Curtis, Susan and Ibrahim, Adel Nematallah, An Historical View of an Accounting Control System 'from the Inside': Shirley Jackson's 'My Life with R. H. Macy'. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=339980
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies