Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the LIBOR Scandal: The Historical, the Ethical, and the Technological

Journal of Banking Regulation, 2023

43 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2019 Last revised: 30 Nov 2023

Xing Huan

EDHEC Business School

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: July 30, 2022

Abstract

This article examines the conception of banking regulation through the lens of the LIBOR scandal. The narrative of the scandal addresses the debate surrounding the public versus private view of banking regulation. Employing an analytical framework developed through reassembling prevailing regulation theories that is contextualized to the banking industry, we analyze the historical, ethical, and technological aspects of the LIBOR scandal and subsequent reform. We argue that the narrative of the LIBOR scandal represents a typical regulatory capture in the private interest view of regulation. However, the benchmark reform appears to concur with the recent paradigm shift towards the public interest approach to banking regulation that involves more intrusive and detailed supervision with a focus on structural bank regulation.

Keywords: banking regulation, financial innovation, financial system, regulatory capture

JEL Classification: N20, N40

Suggested Citation:

Huan, Xing and Previts, Gary J. and Parbonetti, Antonio, Understanding the LIBOR Scandal: The Historical, the Ethical, and the Technological (July 30, 2022). Journal of Banking Regulation, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3449381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3449381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Greek banker spills on the early days of the LIBOR and his first deal with the Shah of Iran
Business Insider , volume 8 Posted: 2012-08
Bank of England in the spotlight over 'nod and wink' to LIBOR rigging Posted: 2012-07-04
Inquiry into the supervision of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International
LIBOR scandal put BoE in line of fire
Financial Times Posted: 2012-07-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,455
RANK
41,360
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies