Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Talmudic Secret of Wealth

32 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2019

Hershey H. Friedman

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business; CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

The Talmud is one of the most influential books of Late Antiquity. A crucial pedagogical tool of the Talmud is the use of divine reward and punishment. This paper reveals ten behaviors whose reward, according to the sages, is wealth. These include being charitable, conducting business in an ethical manner, honoring the Sabbath, respecting one’s spouse, acquiring wisdom. being an honest public servant, and leading a simple, humble life.

Keywords: Talmud, Talmudic Stories, Wealth, Charity, Business Ethics, Ostentation, Humility

JEL Classification: B11, M14

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Hershey H., The Talmudic Secret of Wealth (September 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
T Alper
Talmud-inspired learning craze sweeps South Korea
JTA Posted: 2019-01-14
Z H Chajes
The student's guide through the Talmud. Translated by Jacob Schachter Posted: 2005
C Eisen
Maharal's Be'er ha-Golah and his revolution in aggadic scholarship -in their context and on his terms , p. 137 - 193 Posted: 2007
I S Fish
Selling the Talmud as a business guide
Newsweek Posted: 2010-12-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,858
RANK
66,006
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies