Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure Research: Which Theory Is Relevant?

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 2011

25 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Julie Cotter

University of Southern Queensland

Norziana Lokman

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Muftah M. Najah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: Spring 16, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to overview the most popular theories that have been used in prior research to explain voluntary corporate disclosuresand to provide guidance about the choice of a suitable theory or theories for different types of voluntary disclosure research.This paper presents a comprehensive comparison of voluntary disclosuretheories and relateseach of the theories tothe type of information disclosure being examined. Following prior research, we classify disclosures into strategic and forward looking, financial, and non-financial information. Similarities and differences between theories stem from underlying paradigm differences which are related to incentives to disclose and the costs and benefits considered by each theory.The choice of a suitable theory to underpin the research depends on the type of information disclosure being examined and the external parties considered. It is important for researchers to have an understanding of the similarities and differences between the theories and their applicability to different types of voluntary corporate disclosures. In addition to the type of information disclosed, it is also important for the researcher to consider the context of the research, including the information users of interest. While there are several prior studies that have reviewed groups of voluntary disclosure theories, no known prior study provides a comprehensive comparison of the six theories covered in this paper. Further, no known prior study relates the choice of a suitable theory to the type of information disclosed and the information needs of various user groups.

Keywords: Disclosure theory, socio-political, signalling, agency

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Cotter, Julie and Lokman, Norziana and Najah, Muftah M., Voluntary Disclosure Research: Which Theory Is Relevant? (Spring 16, 2011). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3470466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3470466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
B Ajinkya , Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 76 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M Bassett , P-S &amp; Koh , I Tutticci
The association between employee stock option disclosures and corporate governance: Evidence from an enhanced disclosure regime
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 325 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital
Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 Posted: 1997
Load more
4 Citations
Michal Šindelář -Tereza Čudová
Trust funds in the Czech Republic
Český finanční a účetní časopis , volume 2020 , issue 3-4 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Willi Ceschinski , Carl-Christian Freidank , Franziska Handschumacher
Which characteristics determine the quality of corporate governance reporting? Concepts, reporting practices and empirical evidence from Germany
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 17 , issue 4, Special Issue , p. 279 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Odhiambo Odera , Kieran James , Albert Scott , Jeff Gow
Corporate social responsibility reporting of international oil companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Ethics and Systems , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 131 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Siti Asiah Murni , James Tumewu , Rica Wuryaningrum
Company Characteristics and Environmental Performance on Carbon Emission Disclosure in Public Companies in Indonesia
International Conference on Science, Technology & Environment (ICoSTE) 2019 · 8 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 222
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,496
RANK
13,133
4 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies