Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Origin of Present Value as a Capital Budgeting Decision Criteria: A Journey to Pisa in the Middle Ages

ODEON N°16, 2019

27 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2019

Mauricio Avellaneda Hortúa

Universidad Externado de Colombia

Date Written: October 21, 2019

Abstract

The emergence of new techniques for capital budgeting decision criteria, such as real options, have not managed to displace net present value as one of the most used methodologies to evaluate the viability of an investment. This article seeks to explore the origins of present value as a technique for evaluating investment alternatives. William Goetzmann places the origin of this methodology in the Middle Ages, specifically in the first decades of the thirteenth century, in Liber abbaci, the masterpiece of Leonardo Pisano, better known as Fibonacci. The previous reassesses the belief that places this concept in Irving Fisher’s work of 1930. As to the origin of the nickname of Fibonacci, this investigation found that Pietro Cossali used and explained its meaning in his writing of 1799. This therefore, allows for reevaluating the belief that the nickname of Fibonacci was given by Guillaume Libri in 1838. Finally, this document offers a tribute to all those researchers, in this case of the history of mathematics, who because of their archaeological work rediscover advances and developments that otherwise would be forgotten.

Keywords: History of economic thought; Leonardo Pisano (Fibonacci); capital budgeting criteria (net present value); Pisa

Suggested Citation:

Avellaneda Hortúa, Mauricio, The Origin of Present Value as a Capital Budgeting Decision Criteria: A Journey to Pisa in the Middle Ages (October 21, 2019). ODEON N°16, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
N° , volume 16 , p. 9 - 35 Posted: 2019
Crossref
One draws it on the table, starting from one times one until ten times ten one hundred, and students learn it very well by heart
Then one teaches how to make divisions
Then how to multiply fractions
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
273,040
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies