Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Dec 2019 Last revised: 3 Nov 2021

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Jacob Justus Leidner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2021

Abstract

As part of its goal to monitor and enhance the quality of information available to investors, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reviews companies’ filings to ensure compliance with applicable financial reporting and disclosure requirements. Increased public interest and the substantial costs for both the SEC in reviewing and the companies in responding have led to a rapidly growing body of accounting literature that examines the filing review process. We survey and comment on 80 published and unpublished academic research papers in this literature and identify significant gaps that future research should address. We also summarize the institutional features of the filing review process, aiming to inform future academic studies. Our survey should be of interest to both academics and market participants evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of the filing review process.

To download the SAS codes, please visit https://lcunningham.utk.edu/sec-filing-review-process-sas-codes/

Keywords: comment letter; filing review process; Securities and Exchange Commission; SEC

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48, L51

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Leidner, Jacob Justus, The SEC Filing Review Process: A Survey and Future Research Opportunities (October 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3494830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3494830
 Not Available for Download
0 References
4 Citations
Gerrit Köchling , Philipp Schmidtke , Peter N. Posch
SEC Workload, IPO Filing Reviews, and IPO Pricing
55 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 27 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 326
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marius F. Gros , Martin Nienhaus , Christopher Oehler
Causal Evidence on the Effects of Enforcement Investigations
50 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 189
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports?
54 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jaehan Ahn , Udi Hoitash , Roy Schmardebeck
The Informativeness of SAB 74 Disclosures for Accounting Standard Adoption Outcomes: Evidence from ASC 606
52 Pages · Posted: 29 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 8 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 772
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies