Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tavern Revenues and Alcohol Consumption in the Muscovite State in Mid-Seventeenth Century

Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 186/HUM/2020

23 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2020

Dmitry Liseitsev

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: January 30, 2020

Abstract

The level of alcohol consumption and the role of alcohol taxes as a source of state revenue in pre-Petrine Russia have been the subject of much scholarly interest and political speculation, yet reliable data on the magnitude of trade in “grain wine” is still lacking. This article draws on the records of central government agencies from the 1620s - early 1650s to partially fill this gap. In the decades immediately following the Times of Trouble tavern revenues nearly doubled in absolute numbers and accounted for about a quarter of the total state revenues of Muscovy. The growth rate of tavern revenues was on par with the rate of population growth (between the 1620s and 1640s, urban population increased by 60 percent). The article discusses different methods of running the state alcohol monopoly and estimates the profitability of alcohol trade and the overall levels of alcohol consumption during the period under study.

Keywords: alcohol, pre-Petrine Russia, alcohol monopoly, alcohol taxes

JEL Classification: Z

Suggested Citation:

Liseitsev, Dmitry, Tavern Revenues and Alcohol Consumption in the Muscovite State in Mid-Seventeenth Century (January 30, 2020). Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 186/HUM/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3528251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3528251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
. E Ia , Vodarskii
Naselenie Rossii za 400 let (XVI -nachalo XX vv Posted: 1973
M Kashtanov
Ot srednevekov'ia k novomu vremeni (konets XV -pervaia polovina XVII v , p. 129 - 159 Posted: 1993
Note that these estimates are likely to be understated by as much as one and a half times. The taverns that were
Assuming "wine" to be 38 percent alcohol by volume
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
750
RANK
889,370
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies