Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commemorating the 50‐Year Anniversary of Ball and Brown (1968): The Evolution of Capital Market Research over the Past 50 Years

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 57, Issue 5, December 2019

Posted: 9 Mar 2020

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

We commemorate the 50th anniversary of Ball and Brown by chronicling its impact on capital market research in accounting. We trace the evolution of various research paths that post–Ball and Brown researchers took as they sought to build on the foundation laid by Ball and Brown to create a body of research on the usefulness, timeliness, and other properties of accounting numbers. We discuss how those paths often link back to the groundwork laid and questions originally posed in Ball and Brown.

Keywords: Ball and Brown; earnings; earnings-return relation; earnings usefulness; earnings timeliness; asymmetric timeliness; conservatism; association study; event study; information content; value relevance; positive economics; efficient markets hypothesis; market efficiency

JEL Classification: G10; G14; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kothari, S.P. and Wasley, Charles E., Commemorating the 50‐Year Anniversary of Ball and Brown (1968): The Evolution of Capital Market Research over the Past 50 Years (December 1, 2019). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 57, Issue 5, December 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3538366
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies