Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
John Tiley and the Thunder of History

Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan, eds, Studies in the History of Tax Law, Volume 9, Bloomsbury, London, 2019, 55-91

The University of Auckland Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

38 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020

Michael Littlewood

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 19, 2019

Abstract

The aim of this paper is twofold-fi rst, to present a selective overview of the work undertaken in connection with the series of tax history conferences initiated in 2002 by the late Professor John Tiley and hosted by the University of Cambridge; and, secondly, to examine Joseph Schumpeter ' s claim that the ' thunder of history ' can best be discerned by looking at taxation. In other words, the aim is to assess Schumpeter ' s claim by reference to the work of what might be called the Tiley School of Tax History. 1

Keywords: Tax, history, tax history, John Tiley, Joseph Schumpeter

JEL Classification: A, B, H, K, N, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Littlewood, Michael, John Tiley and the Thunder of History (February 19, 2019). Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan, eds, Studies in the History of Tax Law, Volume 9, Bloomsbury, London, 2019, 55-91, The University of Auckland Faculty of Law Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3540602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
170 Others have examined the histories of diverse other aspects of the British income tax, such as tax litigation, 171 the taxation of companies, 172 the taxation of trusts, 173 extra-statutory concessions, 174 the computation of insurance profits, 175 the deductibility of interest, 176 the tax treatment of expenditure on entertainment, 177 charities, 178 the tax profession, 179 the tax treatment of employee share schemes, 180 tax planning
John Tiley
Tax History , volume 1
Martin Daunton
What is Income?' in Tax History , volume 1
Crossref
John Hn Pearce ; John Hn Pearce
The Role of Central Government in the Process of Determining Liability to Income Tax in England and Wales
Tax History , volume 2
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,150
RANK
142,697
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Comparative & Non-U.S. Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies