Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Benefits Theories of Tax Fairness

Ira K. Lindsay, 'Benefits Theories of Tax Fairness,' in Studies in Tax Law History, Volume 9, Peter Harris & Dominic de Cogan, eds., (Hart Publishing, 2019).

30 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020

Ira Lindsay

University of Surrey - School of Law

Date Written: September 19, 2019

Abstract

The benefits theory of tax fairness was the dominant approach to tax justice until the late nineteenth century. This paper examines the reasons for the rejection of the benefits principle in the nineteenth century and the evolution of benefits theory in the twentieth century in response to this criticism. It uses this historical inquiry as a launching point for re-evaluation of the prospects for benefits theory. Benefits taxation has a number of advantages. As an ethical claim, it appeals to intuitive principles of fair cooperation. As a rule of procedural justice, it tends to protect against oppressive tax schemes. Although benefits theory has the resources to respond to some of the most historically influential criticisms, it faces additional challenges. These include specifying the baseline against which benefits are to be measured and fair treatment of taxpayers who take a public-spirited view of government spending as opposed to those who are mainly concerned with their private advantages.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Benefits Theory, Public Finance, Justice, Tax Theory

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Ira, Benefits Theories of Tax Fairness (September 19, 2019). Ira K. Lindsay, 'Benefits Theories of Tax Fairness,' in Studies in Tax Law History, Volume 9, Peter Harris & Dominic de Cogan, eds., (Hart Publishing, 2019)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Rita Szudoczky
Principles Justifying the Reallocation of Taxing Rights to Market Jurisdictions: Do We Need Them?
Intertax, Volume 51, Issue 12 (2023), pp. 822-839 · 18 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
786
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,497
RANK
72,812
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies