Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Intellectual History of Comparative Tax Law

Alberta Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2020

34 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2020

Kim Brooks

Dalhousie University - Schulich School of Law

Date Written: March 24, 2020

Abstract

In this article, the author argues that comparative tax law has an intellectual history. More specifically, the author claims that history reveals there is a distinguishable comparative tax law scholarship where tax scholars engage in common debates. The author then offers a description of method, highlighting the difficulty of identifying the work that might be considered “comparative tax law.” Next, the author conceptualizes and clusters contributions from scholars who have framed the comparative tax law field. The author argues that our national boundedness, combined with the lack of an explicit network of scholars, has masked the rich intellectual history in the field of comparative tax law. Finally, the author concludes by drawing attention to the network effects that seem to inform some of the approaches taken by the key contributors to comparative tax law’s intellectual history.

Keywords: Comparative Law; Comparative Tax; Tax Policy

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Kimberley, An Intellectual History of Comparative Tax Law (March 24, 2020). Alberta Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3560239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Garbarino
Comparative Taxation
Ibid
Crossref
Ibid
[t]he discourse of comparative taxation among tax scholars should use level 3-language to be effective and achieve an acceptable degree of communication
Garbarino
supra note 140, is most clearly focused on tax transplants, although Garbarino's theory and taxonomy of tax transplants is laid out in Garbarino
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,184
RANK
386,928
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies