Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Words and Numbers: Financialization and Accounting Standard Setting in the UK

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020

Yasmine Chahed

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

How is it possible that British policy makers resisted market-based measurement for decades while financial economic concepts of decision-making and valuation still gained widespread acceptance as a justification for accounting standard-setting? This study introduces the concept of “technologies of financialization” to develop the theorizing of the rise of finance in the domain of accounting. Based on a genealogical history of narrative reporting in the UK, it demonstrates how references to qualitative reporting techniques helped to address recurring crises of measurement from 1969 to 1993, and ultimately contributed to the practical acceptance of market-based measurement in the UK standard-setting context. The data is interpreted through a cultural economy framework that directs attention to the power of referring to financial reporting as a combination of words and numbers in sustaining its theoretical redefinition “from below,” that is, by relating it to the experience of practicing accountants rather than accounting theory. As a technology of financialization, narrative reporting made financial economic ideals of market-based measurement, decision usefulness, and future orientation appear operable in a real-life reporting context. Whenever measurement reached its practical limits, narratives were relied on to explain the impact of price-level changes, frame economic decisions, and relate unobservable future cash flows to present-day strategies and resources. The insight into how narrative reporting practices have been laced into the reasoning of capital markets for over 40 years is timely because it encourages to think that narratives can also play a more encompassing role and drive the turn towards wider corporate accountability on social and environmental impacts while hard measurements in this area are still being figured out.

Keywords: financialization, decision usefulness, fair value, narrative reporting, accounting standard setting

JEL Classification: B26, M41, M48, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Chahed, Yasmine, Words and Numbers: Financialization and Accounting Standard Setting in the UK (April 1, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3568472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
159 References
A statement of basic accounting theory
Advancing the standards , volume 79 , p. 294 - 299 Posted: 1966
Establishing financial accounting standards: Report of the study on establishment of accounting principles
AICPA Posted: 1972
Objectives of financial statements
AICPA Posted: 1973
T Andersson , C Haslam , E Lee , N Tsitisianis
Financialized accounts: A stakeholder account of cash distribution in the S&P
Accounting Forum , volume 500 , issue 3 , p. 217 - 249 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
RANK
261,451
159 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies