Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Kimberley Capers: An Outback ‘Whodunnit?’

This article has first appeared in "The Tax Specialist " 23(5) 01 June 2020 and has been reproduced with permission from the Tax Institute

8 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2020

Lex Fullarton

Curtin University of Technology - Curtin Business School - Bentley Campus; Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Dale Pinto

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: November 16, 2019

Abstract

In November 2019, a sequel to the mass-marketed tax avoidance schemes of the 1990s appeared in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The Australian Broadcasting Commission ran a series of articles revealing how hundreds of disaffected and isolated taxpayers engaged in a tax scam potentially involving tens of millions of dollars.

In itself the scam was short, sharp and almost trivial, compared to the billion dollar mass-marketed tax avoidance schemes which involved over 40 000 taxpayers nationwide and took years to evolve and settle. The ‘sideshow’ was over almost before it started, and nearly went unnoticed from a national perspective.

However the ‘when, what, where and how’ are not the key elements of this paper – it is the ‘who and why’ that are investigated. This paper is an overview of what can go wrong when taxpayers feel disaffected and isolated from their government.

Keywords: Tax Compliance Behaviour, Tax Avoidance Schemes

JEL Classification: K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Fullarton, Alexander and Pinto, Dale, Kimberley Capers: An Outback ‘Whodunnit?’ (November 16, 2019). This article has first appeared in "The Tax Specialist " 23(5) 01 June 2020 and has been reproduced with permission from the Tax Institute, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3602438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies