Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
REA, Triple-Entry Accounting and Blockchain: Converging Paths to Shared Ledger Systems

32 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023

Juan Ignacio Ibañez

UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies; The DLT Science Foundation

Dr. Chris N. Bayer

Development International e.V.

Paolo Tasca

UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies

Jiahua Xu

University College London - Department of Computer Science; The DLT Science Foundation; École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); UCL

Date Written: May 15, 2020

Abstract

The concept of shared ledger systems offering a single source of truth has repeatedly called traditional bookkeeping into question. Improving upon the long-standing double-entry system, solutions such as the Resource-Event-Agent (REA) accounting framework, triple-entry accounting (TEA) and blockchain have been advanced. However, to date, the historical development of these concepts remains murky. This paper conducts a genealogical analysis of shared ledger systems, in particular tracing the development of REA, TEA and blockchain. We show how the REA framework has had a distinct influence on independent streams of research in the field of TEA, and how this interaction may be traced to the present incarnation of shared ledger systems in blockchain. In doing so, we duly acknowledge the influence of key individuals contributing to this development, correct common misconceptions and map out how the paths of REA, TEA and blockchain overlap in the realm of shared ledger systems.

Keywords: Triple-Entry Accounting, REA Accounting Model, Single Source of Truth, Blockchain, Distributed Ledger Technology

Suggested Citation:

Ibañez, Juan Ignacio and Bayer, Dr. Chris N. and Tasca, Paolo and Xu, Jiahua, REA, Triple-Entry Accounting and Blockchain: Converging Paths to Shared Ledger Systems (May 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3602207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3602207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Alawadhi , B Ames , C E Maciel De Aquino , M Arthúrsdóttir , G Brennan , H L Brown-Liburd , N Bumgarner , P Byrnes , T R Criste , S Ghosh , J A Gross , B Gullkvist , C Hardy , H M Jónsson , G Lasslet , A Medinets , D Moon , E H Miyaki , N Sigolo , S Sigurjónsson , T R Stewart , T Teeter , M A Vasarhelyi , J D Warren , B T Blaustein , S Jajodia , C D Mccollum , L Notargiacomo , I Kumaresan , R Miller , A
How to Explain the Value of Replicated, Shared Ledgers from First Principles. Richard Gendal Brown: Thoughts on the Future of Finance
Instantaneous Decentralized Poker. International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security , p. 410 - 440 Posted: 1993
H Byeongju
An Introduction on Traditional Double Entry Bookkeeping of Korea Posted: 2018
C W Cai
Triple-entry Accounting with Blockchain: How far Have we Come?
th World Congress of Korean Studies Posted: 2019
Accounting & Finance. Accounting and Finance Association of Australia and New Zealand. Chandler, A. D. 1977. The Visible Hand: Managerial Revolution in American Business
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,039
RANK
26,563
19 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies