Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Money View vs. the Accounting View: The Capitol Hill Babysitting Cooperative Revisited

25 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020

Oliver Davey

Independent

Antti Jokinen

Independent

Date Written: June 16, 2020

Abstract

We propose a new way of looking at transactions involving goods and money. Building on earlier work in which money is identified as a recordkeeping device or “memory”, we re-interpret the basic transaction — traditionally viewed as an exchange of goods and money — as a one-sided “gift” of goods that is recorded on a shared ledger. Money is no longer an object or “medium” that is exchanged. In fact, there is no recognizable concept of money in the theory we develop, yet all monetary phenomena, such as bank accounts and currency (tokens), remain intact and form the recordkeeping apparatus. This enables us to describe environments, which have hitherto been considered monetary, in terms of a pure credit economy. It also appears that this approach solves some common monetary puzzles.

Keywords: Money, Monetary system, Accounting, Tokens, Frictions

JEL Classification: E40, E42, E51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Davey, Oliver and Jokinen, Antti, The Money View vs. the Accounting View: The Capitol Hill Babysitting Cooperative Revisited (June 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3628707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3628707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Luis Araujo
Social norms and money
​ Journal of Monetary Economics​ , volume 51 , p. 241 - 256 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Bank , England
Money creation in the modern economy
​ Quarterly Bulletin​ Posted: 2014
George Berkeley
​ The Querist: Containing Several Queries , p. 1735 - 1742
Crossref
Fischer Black
Banking and Interest Rates in a World Without Money: The Effects of Uncontrolled Banking
​ Journal of Bank Research​ Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Juraj Karpis
Money is Status Memory - The Generally Accepted Platform for Interpersonal and Intertemporal Prestige Status Transfer
20 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,311
RANK
303,670
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies