Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tax Policy Legacy: Tim Edgar's Contributions to Tax Scholarship and Tax Legislation

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2020, Vol. 68, No. 2, p. 517-537

22 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2020

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

Tim Edgar's passing in December 2016 dealt a severe blow to tax scholarship in Canada and globally, not to mention being a sad loss for this journal, to which he was a contributor for over three decades. Tim's books, journal articles, and book chapters spanned a wide spectrum of tax policy issues and have played a central role in helping policy makers, academics, and students understand some of the most conceptually and technically difficult areas of tax law. Tim's book on the taxation of financial arrangements, published by the Canadian Tax Foundation, is viewed by policy makers worldwide as the definitive authority on the subject, setting out a principled path to carving out the debt component of financial instruments and subjecting it to neutral accrual taxation. In a closely related area, his detailed analysis of the difficulties confronting policy makers who seek a neutral application of the goods and services tax (GST) to financial supplies is considered to be foundational work in the field, and his proposal to remove the tax from business-to-business supplies has been adopted directly in New Zealand and via an indirect mechanism in Singapore. Tim's work on the general anti-avoidance rule is cited time and again as a key treatment of the topic, while his proposal to extend thin capitalization rules to outbound investment has been adopted in Australia. Tim's comprehensive analysis of the Canadian pseudo-imputation system opens the door to a much-needed reconsideration of the system. The more challenging the subject matter, the deeper Tim investigated and methodically dissected the topic to arrive at reasoned recommendations for reform. Tim's work will continue to be read, cited, and applied in practice for many years.

Keywords: GAAR, GST, financial services, thin capitalization, debt-equity, debt substitute

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard, A Tax Policy Legacy: Tim Edgar's Contributions to Tax Scholarship and Tax Legislation (July 1, 2020). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2020, Vol. 68, No. 2, p. 517-537, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3642889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Tim Edgar
Designing and Implementing a Target-Effective General Anti-Avoidance Rule
Tax Avoidance in Canada After Canada Trustco and Mathew , p. 221 - 58 Posted: 2007
Tim Edgar
Building a Better GAAR
Virginia Tax Review , volume 27 , p. 833 - 905 Posted: 2008
Tim Edgar
Policy Forum: Editor's Introduction-The General Anti-Avoidance Rule at 25
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 123 Posted: 2014
Fracking and the Rural Poor: Negative Externalities, Failing Remedies, and Federal Legislation
Examples of the latter include the following: Matthew Castelli , volume 3 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
723
RANK
778,997
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies