Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Donald T. Nicolaisen: An Internationalist SEC Chief Accountant (1944–2019)

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 34, Issue 2, pp. 185-191, 2020

Posted: 4 Aug 2020

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: July 7, 2020

Abstract

Donald T. Nicolaisen (1944-2019) was an internationalist, a progressive thinker, and a leader of the U.S. accounting profession. This memorial article traces Nicolaisen’s early education and career in the Milwaukee office of Price Waterhouse & Co. in the 1960s, his rise to partner and eventual transfer to the firm’s national office in New York City in the 1970s, and his appointment and tenure as the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the early 2000s. During his time as the Chief Accountant, Nicolaisen laid the groundwork for the lifting of the reconciliation requirement for foreign private issuers traded on American stock exchanges; the implantation of Sarbanes-Oxley’s internal control reporting requirements; and the introduction of XBRL for companies’ annual filings with the Commission. Through these initiatives, Nicolaisen leaves behind a legacy of improving both the quality of financial reporting and the efficiency of U.S. capital markets.

Keywords: Chief Accountant, reconciliation requirements, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Securities and Exchange Commission

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A. and Persson, Martin Emanuel, Donald T. Nicolaisen: An Internationalist SEC Chief Accountant (1944–2019) (July 7, 2020). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 34, Issue 2, pp. 185-191, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3645542
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
611
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies