Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qur’ânic Perspective of Accounting

138 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2020

Shahriar M. Saadullah

Qatar University

AbdulQuddoos AbdulBasith

Qatar University

Zaki Abushawish

Qatar University

Date Written: August 5, 2020

Abstract

We identify and analyze the verses of the Noble Qur’ân that contain the words account or accounting using qualitative content analysis. Eight themes emerge from the forty-six verses that contain the words account or accounting. We present each passage that contain these verses and illustrate the context of the verses, the aspects of human life addressed, and the message conveyed with the help of concept mapping. In addition, we discuss each passage in-depth in the Noble Qur’ân that contain the words account or accounting, with the help of classical and contemporary exegesis, in the supplement to this paper.

Keywords: Accountability, accounting, concept mapping, Noble Qur’ân, qualitative content analysis

JEL Classification: M41, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Saadullah, Shahriar M. and AbdulBasith, AbdulQuddoos and Abushawish, Zaki, Qur’ânic Perspective of Accounting (August 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3667759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3667759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Al Faruqi , L I
The Cantillation of the Qur'an , volume 19 , p. 2 - 25 Posted: 1987
Crossref
M I A Al-Mahaly , A I A As-Soyuty
Posted: 2010
S S Al-Mubarakpuri
Ar-Raheeq Al-Makhtum (The Sealed Nectar Posted: 2002
M M Ali
A Word for Word Meaning of the Qur'an. Suffolk: Jam'iat 'Ihyaa' Minhaaj Al Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
627,303
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Anthropology of Religion eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies