Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IAPC's International Auditing Guidelines and its Controversial IAG 13 on the Auditor's Report

25 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2020

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: June 15, 2020

Abstract

This paper is a historical account of the founding, organization and early operation of the International Auditing Practices Committee (IAPC), which was one of the committees of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), from 1978 to 1991. It examines the debates and disagreements attending the most controversial of the IAPC’s 29 International Auditing Guidelines (IAGs), dealing with the auditor’s report on financial statements, issued in 1983. It also reviews IFAC’s 1987 survey of compliance with the IAGs by its member countries around the world and the IAPC’s decision in 1991 to change Guidelines to Standards.

Keywords: IFAC; IAPC; International Auditing Guidelines; Standard Setting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The IAPC's International Auditing Guidelines and its Controversial IAG 13 on the Auditor's Report (June 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3674649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Professional Accounting in Foreign Countries series Posted: 1992
The meaning of 'present fairly in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles' in the independent auditor's report. Statement on Auditing Standards 5 Posted: 1975
Auditor's considerations when a question arises about an entity's continued existence. Statement on Auditing Standards 34 Posted: 1981
The auditor's consideration of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. Statement on Auditing Standards 59 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
RANK
549,213
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies