Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History of Nigerian Accounting Practice: Progress and Contemporary Issues

15 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2020

Jude Edeigba

Colorado Mesa University

Date Written: November 8, 2020

Abstract

This study provides the background to the Nigerian financial reporting environment and discusses the progressive journey from the Nigerian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The analysis of the progress in Nigerian financial reporting regulation from 1957 to post IFRS adoption in 2010 is discussed in this study. Discussion of the findings follows a genealogical approach to posit development of financial reporting regulation in Nigeria. From the analysis, the time accounting was first practised in Nigeria cannot be traced to a particular date. However, the formalisation of accounting in Nigeria is discussed in this study. It was found that the regulation of accounting practice in Nigeria begins in 1957. Lastly, challenges and obstacles to accounting practice in Nigeria are discussed, particularly post IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Accounting in Nigeria, Nigerian Accounting Regulation, IFRS Adoption in Nigeria

JEL Classification: M40, M41, N48, N00, N01

Suggested Citation:

Edeigba, Jude, History of Nigerian Accounting Practice: Progress and Contemporary Issues (November 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3726767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3726767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Population Overview Per Country Posted: 2014
U Idemudia
The Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative and Corruption in Nigeria: Rethinking the Links between Transparency and Accountability, in Access to Information in Africa , p. 127 - 148 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Odinwa , F Nlerum
Socio-economic effects of using the law enforcement agents in controlling community conflicts in Rivers State
Nigeria. International Journal of Pure and Applied science (IJPAS) , p. 94 - 103 Posted: 2015
M Olaseni , W Alade
Vision 20: 2020 and the challenges of infrastructural development in Nigeria
Journal of Sustainable Development , volume 5 , issue 2 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,880
RANK
43,783
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies