Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whitehall to Wagga Wagga: The Legacy of UK Tax Law in Australia

British Tax Review, No 3 (2008), pp 205-227

24 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2021

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

This article explores the influence of UK tax concepts on the development of the income tax in Australia. It shows how certain aspects of the UK's 1842 Income Tax Act found their way initially into the various income taxing provisions enacted by the Australian states in the second half of the nineteenth century and ultimately into the federal income tax provisions that were developed in the first half of the twentieth century. It also shows how that influence was contemporaneously and subsequently reinforced by shared judicial interpretation of sometimes differing legislative provisions. Finally, it identifies the impact of the UK's capital gains tax (CGT) provisions on the development of Australia's own CGT regime in the latter half of the twentieth century, again with sometimes shared jurisprudence. The analysis concludes that while the UK influence is evident, it is only one of a number of powerful factors that have shaped the manner in which income and capital gains are taxed in Australia. The article also argues that the influence is not always direct, and nor is it always one way.

Note: “This material was first published by Thomson Reuters, trading as Sweet & Maxwell, 5 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AQ, in the British Tax Review as Whitehall to Wagga Wagga: The Legacy of UK Tax Law in Australia [2008] BTR: No.3 and is reproduced by agreement with the publishers”.

Keywords: Australia taxation, UK tax concepts, Capital gains tax; Comparative law, Income tax, Legal history

Suggested Citation:

Walpole, Michael and Evans, Christopher Charles, Whitehall to Wagga Wagga: The Legacy of UK Tax Law in Australia (2008). British Tax Review, No 3 (2008), pp 205-227, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Gleeson
The Influence of the Privy Council on Australia'', Speech to the Anglo-Australian Lawyers Society Sydney Posted: 2007-05
Fct V Myer Emporium Ltd
, p. 18 - 693 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Fct V Mcneil
Posted: 2007
Crossref
See Krever
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies