Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Cedric Sandford on the Discipline of Tax Compliance Costs

Australian Tax Forum Vol 17 No 4, pp 389-406, 2002

18 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

The principal aim of this paper is to critically evaluate the contribution and impact of Professor Cedric Sandford to the discipline of tax compliance costs. It covers, sequentially, four separate but related topics. Initially, it reviews the state of tax compliance cost research prior to his engagement in compliance cost research in the period from the 1970s onwards. The paper then examines Professor Sandford's role in raising tax compliance costs into a scholarly discipline. The third topic is devoted to the current position of tax compliance costs in the fields of tax research and tax policy, especially from an Australian perspective. Finally, the paper provides a summary of aspects of his vision for future directions in tax compliance cost research.

Keywords: Cedric Sandford, tax compliance, tax research, tax policy, taxation

Suggested Citation:

Tran-Nam, Binh and Evans, Christopher Charles, The Impact of Cedric Sandford on the Discipline of Tax Compliance Costs (2002). Australian Tax Forum Vol 17 No 4, pp 389-406, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
741,983
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies