Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deductibility of Tax-Related Expenses: Historical and Comparative Perspectives

Australian Tax Review, Vol 48, No 2, pp 100-116, 2019

17 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Ann Kayis-Kumar

UNSW Sydney

Peter Mellor

Monash Business School

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The Australian income tax provisions currently permit a deduction for various items of tax-related expenses, including expenses incurred in managing tax affairs, interest charged by the Australian Taxation Office and the costs of tax litigation. The history of these provisions suggests that they were introduced with the principal objective of fostering improved tax compliance, although there are now suggestions that the provision may be more closely associated with enabling tax minimisation than fostering tax compliance. As a result, there have been recent calls for the deduction to be capped at a relatively low level. This article explores the development of the deductibility of tax-related expenses and compares and contrasts the Australian experience with that of broadly similar tax jurisdictions. It identifies a continuum of approaches that have been adopted elsewhere and suggests that the Australian experience places it at the more generous end of the spectrum.

Keywords: tax deductibility, tax expenses, income tax, taxation, tax compliance, tax minimisation

Suggested Citation:

Kayis-Kumar, Ann and Mellor, Peter and Evans, Christopher Charles, The Deductibility of Tax-Related Expenses: Historical and Comparative Perspectives (2019). Australian Tax Review, Vol 48, No 2, pp 100-116, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3728471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Standing Committee on Economics , volume 62
Crossref
House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics , volume 62 , p. 59 - 60
Crossref
Emma Koehn
Four Things We Learned from Bill Shorten's
Budget Reply Speech Posted: 2017-05-12
Michael Janda , ; Abc News
Tax Deductions for Advice Should Be Capped at $3,000: Australia Institute Posted: 2017-05-22
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
490,153
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies