Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Theoretical Implications of New Discoveries in Chinese Accounting History Research from Original Archival Materials

AAA Annual Meeting, August 2019

39 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Weipeng Yuan

Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) - Institute of Economics

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 11, 2019

Abstract

It has repeatedly been argued that double-entry bookkeeping (‘DEB’) was important for enabling capitalism’s development in the West. These claims remain contested so it is relevant to explore the comparative international history of the book-keeping and accounting practices of economically successful organizations elsewhere. Complementing the recent exploration into the original account books contained in the archive of Tŏng Tài Shēng [统泰升] (‘TTS’) covering 1798-1850 (Yuan et al., Accounting and Business Research, 2017), our paper reports further exploration in original account books contained in the archives of the Zìgòng [自贡] brine wells for 1916-1917 (which have been argued to be essentially unchanged from the 19th century Qīng era and perhaps earlier) and in original records from merchanting businesses in  Anhuī province, spanning 300 years, which survive from the 1590s onwards. These accounts include more sophisticated financial statement preparation and reconciliation with underlying records than those of TTS, and in the case of the  Anhuī merchants’ accounts include monetary values for physical as well as monetary assets. We also review recently available 19th century accounting manuals and tentatively conclude, on the basis of the evidence now emerging, that although indigenous Chinese style accounting practice differed in form from Western DEB, nevertheless despite its variety of forms it had in some cases captured the structural essentials of DEB’s content and functions and might be labelled 'Chinese-style doubled entry bookkeeping' ('CsDdEB'). We indicate suggestions for the further archival research now needed.

Keywords: Comparative international accounting history, Chinese accounting archives from Míng to late Qīng era, Chinese business history, Sūzhōu măzì, double-entry bookkeeping (DEB), Chinese-style doubled entry bookkeeping (CsDdEB)

JEL Classification: M41, N35, N85

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Weipeng and Macve, Richard H., Some Theoretical Implications of New Discoveries in Chinese Accounting History Research from Original Archival Materials (July 11, 2019). AAA Annual Meeting, August 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3734228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
(ii): Shānxī banks , volume 2
3(i): Restaurant
3 (ii) Ānhuī merchants [1591] and late 18 th century and also 1847→ 79
龙门 Wúxī
Posted: 1941
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
864
RANK
747,753
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies