Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cultural Origin and Minority Shareholder Expropriation: Historical Evidence

73 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 14 Nov 2023

Gu Zhihui

Nankai University - Business School

Wei Sun

China Agricultural University - College of Economics and Management

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: October 17, 2023

Abstract

Can historical culture explain regional differences in minority shareholder expropriation? Examining regional variation in China, we document that the influence of historical Confucian values persists, despite decades of political movements clamping down on these values, and that these values reduce minority shareholder expropriation in local public firms. The effect on minority shareholder expropriation, in part, operates through the establishment of oversight mechanisms (i.e., greater financial reporting quality and dividend payouts) that constrain expropriation. The findings have important implications for understanding the origins of enduring regional differences in minority shareholder expropriation and capital market development.

Keywords: Minority shareholder expropriation; Tunneling; Culture; Generalized morality; Historical persistence; Financial reporting quality; Governance; Economic institutions

JEL Classification: M14, N25, N95, O16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhihui, Gu and Sun, Wei and Zhou, Frank, Cultural Origin and Minority Shareholder Expropriation: Historical Evidence (October 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3761419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3761419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
T Conley , S Gonçalves , C Hansen
Inference with dependent data in accounting and finance applications
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1139 - 1203 Posted: 2018
Crossref
R Davidson , A Dey , A Smith
Executives'"off-the-job" behavior, corporate culture, and financial reporting risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W T De Bary
Neo-Confucian orthodoxy and the learning of the mind-and-heart Posted: 1981
M Dell , B F Jones , B A Olken
Temperature shocks and economic growth: Evidence from the last half century
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 66 - 95 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,641
RANK
148,308
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies