Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Accounting History of Credit Money

24 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021

Maxime Izoulet

CEMI-Robert de Sorbon / Lycée Germaine Tillon

Date Written: March 13, 2021

Abstract

This article seeks to demonstrate that the invention of double-entry accounting, during the 13th and 14th centuries in the cities of northern Italy, was at the origin of the emergence of our monetary system: the credit money system. By showing the limits of the monetary histories that currently exist, this article shows that these limits are the consequence of a theoretical unthought: that of the different dimensions of money. It then shows that this problem is particularly well defined by double-entry accounting, which explains its decisive historical importance for the history of money.

Keywords: Accounting, money, credit-money, history of central banks, debt, finance, history of credit.

JEL Classification: A1, B15, B52, E5, N10

Suggested Citation:

Izoulet, Maxime, An Accounting History of Credit Money (March 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3803766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3803766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Xvii De Roover
L'évolution de la lettre de change
XIV e -XVIII e siècle, Affaires et gens d'affaires, éditions Armand Collin Posted: 1956
U Xviii Tucci
Il Banco della Piazza di Rialto, première banque publique vénitienne
Cahiers de la Méditerranée , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 155 - 169 Posted: 1981
R Xix De Roover
L'évolution de la lettre de change
XIV e -XVIII e siècle, Affaires et gens d'affaires, éditions Armand Collin Posted: 1956
W Xx Roberds , S Quinn
The Bank of Amsterdam and the Leap to Central Bank Money
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 262 - 265 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,804
RANK
180,250
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies