Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Nature of Money and Claims

18 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2021 Last revised: 26 May 2021

Maxime Izoulet

CEMI-Robert de Sorbon / Lycée Germaine Tillon

Date Written: March 14, 2021

Abstract

This article uses the logic of double-entry bookkeeping, as it is universally used in the economic life of banks, central banks and companies, to precisely define the nature of claims and money. First, it shows that these two forms of value are always distinct in accounting, but that the claim is by nature unstable, ambivalent, and can evolve towards the monetary form under certain conditions. Then, in a second step, we show that the claim has three sources in return for which it is issued: the loan by money creation, the loan of existing money, and the forward sale of goods. These accounting relationships, which are in fact a definition of book value, then allow us to sketch out an analysis of contemporary financial and monetary crises and how to respond to them effectively.

Keywords: Accounting, Monetary Theory, Money, Claims, Debt, Credit, History of Money

JEL Classification: A1, B5, B52, E5, N10

Suggested Citation:

Izoulet, Maxime, The Accounting Nature of Money and Claims (March 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3804353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3804353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Stephen G Cecchetti
Crisis and Responses:the Federal Reserve and the Financial Crisis of Posted: 2007
Crossref
Stephen G Cecchetti
Money, Banking, and Financial Markets Posted: 2008
Jack Meaning , Feng Zhu
The Impact of Recent Central Bank Asset Purchase Programmes
BIS Quarterly Review. Available at SSRN Posted: 2011
C ; M Choulet , A Orléan
QE and Bank Balance Sheets, the American experience
?type=document&IdPdf=25852&fbclid=IwAR3LNIUu OxF2R6f7NChL478UJ6KCeHaVdXLjMSqkPSFMnIna1fv4Je0_dtk References Aglietta Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,652
RANK
278,525
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies