Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moral Accountability Principles for Moral Accounting Engagements

52 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract

I define moral accounting as the crafting of accountability systems that improve moral performance in a moral way. I also propose that accountants are well-positioned to offer Moral Accounting Engagements (MAEs), which evaluate how a client’s systems fall short of moral accounting’s aspirations and advise them on how they can address any shortcomings. I offer a conceptual framework that leaves controversial moral standards in the hands of those with the philosophical, civic or theological expertise to earn moral authority, but requires accountants to structure those standards to make MAEs a feasible endeavor that ties closely to traditional accounting engagements both conceptually and procedurally. Conceptually, moral accounting views people as stewards acting on behalf of society, just as traditional accounting views managers as stewards acting on behalf of owners. Procedurally, an MAE involves gathering objective data on accountability systems, capturing the performance of entities using double-entry bookkeeping, and evaluating systems and performance in light of existing standards. I also offer a set of Moral Accounting Principles (the MAP) that are moral analogs of longstanding principles in traditional accounting, and that guide the accountant’s evaluation of the client. I close by sketching directions for future research.

Keywords: Accounting, Morality, Ethics, Accountability, Accountability Failures, Corporate Social Responsibility, Stakeholder Theory

JEL Classification: M4, M14, Z1, A13

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J., Moral Accountability Principles for Moral Accounting Engagements (March 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3812505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,678
RANK
117,520
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies