Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Frank Lewis Clarke (1933-2020): An International Journey in Quest of a More Serviceable Accounting

Accounting Horizons, Vol 35, Issue 1, pp. 205-219, 2021.

Posted: 30 Mar 2021

Graeme Dean

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Accounting

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Massimo Sargiacomo

'Gabriele d'Annunzio' University of Chieti-Pescara

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

Frank Lewis Clarke (1933-2020), a member of the Sydney School of Accounting, was a keen observer of business practices, successes and failures, an international journeyman for better accounting standards, an influential accounting academic, and a master teacher. This memorial article considers briefly Clarke’s early childhood, education, and then focuses on his contribution to accounting scholarship. During an academic career spanning more than five decades, Clarke published over fifty articles in scholarly journals, a dozen books, opinion pieces in the popular press and many submissions to professional and governmental inquiries. He exposed his ideas in seminar presentations at international conferences nearly every year. His prodigious output addressed the serviceability of accounting generally, and more specifically, as it was revealed in analyses of corporate financial dilemmas and unexpected corporate collapses. He leaves behind a legacy that highlights the need for a more serviceable accounting.

Keywords: Biography, corporate failure, mark-to-market, Sydney School of Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dean, Graeme and Persson, Martin Emanuel and Sargiacomo, Massimo, Frank Lewis Clarke (1933-2020): An International Journey in Quest of a More Serviceable Accounting (March 1, 2021). Accounting Horizons, Vol 35, Issue 1, pp. 205-219, 2021., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies