Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring and Reporting the Nation's Finances: Statistics and Accounting

Posted: 15 Mar 2003

Rowan Jones

University of Birmingham

Abstract

Measuring and reporting the nation's finances are based on government budgeting, national accounting and the accounting discipline, which are all fundamentally different. The nature and extent of these differences has rarely been made explicit. The most visible change in the accounting discipline in the second half of the 20th century was the emergence of codifications of accounting, with concomitant policy-making processes that allow for 'due process'. One result is that each codification is different within countries such as the UK and US, as well as between them. The codifications for government budgeting and national accounting are different again. The article offers some broad conclusions.

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Rowan, Measuring and Reporting the Nation's Finances: Statistics and Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=381675
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Implication of GASB Statement No. 34 for Reporting and Accountability: The Georgia Experience

By Yi (elaine) Lu

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies