Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Ethics in the Rashba’s Responsa to Saragossa

13 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: May 6, 2021

Abstract

Rashba’s responsum III:406 relates to a dispute between the Saragossa Jewish community and taxpayer Reuven, whose daughter married an out-towner within the city but then subsequently emigrated without paying the exit tax. The community, which had enacted an ordinance to tax dowries of offspring who exit the city, sought to recover an exit tax. The taxpayer (Reuven) argued that the technical language of the ordinance applied only if the wedding took place outside of the city and exempts weddings that took place in the city even if the newlyweds later departed. We derive three lessons on tax ethics and policy from the Rashba’s responsum. First, the tax code should be applied based on its spirit, as determined by the application of precedence, not by an exact technical reading of its language. Second, a taxpayer is blameless for taking advantage of a valid loophole, even if the application of the loophole does not conform with the intent of the tax code. Third, a taxpayer is blameless when another party to a transaction engages in inappropriate tax evasion. This is the case even if the structure of the transaction contributed to the evasion. We show that similar conclusions were reached by U.S. Judge Learned Hand seven centuries after the Rashba.

Keywords: Aderet, Rashba, tax ethics, Spain, Aragon, Catalonia, Barcelona, Aragon, wealth tax, exit tax, substance over form, responsa, Judge Learned Hand

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, Tax Ethics in the Rashba’s Responsa to Saragossa (May 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3840601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3840601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
RANK
841,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies