Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organization and Development of Arthur Andersen & Co.'s Public Review Board - The Minow Years, 1974-1983

35 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021

Phil D. Wedemeyer

Independent

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: May 13, 2021

Abstract

This is a historical account of first nine years of Arthur Andersen & Co.’s Public Review Board (PRB), from 1974 to 1983. This period coincides with the term of Chair Newton N. Minow. The paper draws on the published annual reports of both the firm and the PRB, as well as on interviews with principals from that period, including Minow. The PRB was a unique experiment, as the Andersen firm established it as an independent board composed of distinguished public servants who were to review the firm’s policies and make visits to the firm’s offices around the world, and then render annual reports on their assessment of the quality of the firm’s work in carrying out its professional practice, in auditing, tax, and administrative services. The paper concludes with a discussion of some lessons learned from the PRB experience for today’s debate over the independent oversight of audit firms.[enter Abstract Body]

Keywords: auditing, independence, Arthur Andersen & Co.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wedemeyer, Phil and Zeff, Stephen A., Organization and Development of Arthur Andersen & Co.'s Public Review Board - The Minow Years, 1974-1983 (May 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Prepared by the Subcommittee on Reports, Accounting and Management of the Committee on Government Operations Posted: 1976-12
Disclosure of relationships with independent public accountants
Securities and Exchange Commission Posted: 1978-06-29
Scope of services by independent accountants
Securities and Exchange Commission Posted: 1979-06-14
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Co
The First Sixty Years Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
830
RANK
623,124
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies