Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The “Accountant” stereotype in the Florentine Medieval popular culture: “galantuomini” or usurers?

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal

Posted: 24 May 2021

Matteo Molinari

University of Bergamo - University of Bergamo,; University of Roehampton

Jonida Carungu

London Metropolitan University

Date Written: May 05, 2021

Abstract

PURPOSE:
This paper explores the stereotype of the accountant in Florentine medieval popular culture based on literary works and from a historical perspective. It aims to highlight how stereotypes change with time and represent the cultural and historical evolution of a society. This research challenges Miley and Read (2012) who stated that the foundation of the stereotype was in Commedia dell’arte, an Italian form of improvisational theatre commenced in the 15th century.

DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH:
We applied a qualitative research method to examine the accountant from a medieval popular culture perspective. The analysis consists of two phases: (1) categorisation of the accountant stereotype based on accounting history literature and (2) thematic analysis of The Divine Comedy (1307–1313) and The Decameron (1348¬–1351). We explored a synchronic perspective of historical investigation through a ‘cross-author’ comparison, identifying Dante Alighieri as the first key author of medieval popular culture. During his imaginary journey through The Divine Comedy, Dante describes the social, political, and economic context of the Florentine people of the 14th century. Then, with its various folkloristic elements, The Decameron of Giovanni Boccaccio becomes the ‘manifesto’ of the popular culture in the Florentine medieval times.

FINDINGS:
This study shows the change of the accountant stereotype from the medieval age to the Renaissance. The Divine Comedy mainly connotes a negative accountant stereotype. The 14th century’s Florentine gentlemen (‘i galantuomini’) are apparently positive characters, with an ordered and clean aspect, but they are accused of being usurers. Dante Alighieri pictures the accountant as a ‘servant of capitalism’, ‘dishonest person, excessively fixated with money’, ‘villain and evil’, and ‘excessively rational’. Giovanni Boccaccio mainly portrays a positive accountant stereotype. The accountant is increasingly more reliable, and this ‘commercial man’ takes a more prestigious role in the society. In The Decameron the accountant is depicted as a ‘hero’, ‘gentleman’, ‘family-oriented person with a high level of work commitment’, and ‘colourful persona, warm, and emotional’. Overall, we provided new evidence on the existence of the accountant stereotype in the Florentine medieval popular.

ORIGINALITY:
This study engages with accounting history literature accountants’ stereotypes in an unexplored context and time-period, providing a base for comparative international research on accounting stereotypes and popular culture. Additionally, it addresses the need for further research on the accountant stereotype based on literary works, and from a historical perspective. Therefore, this research also expands the New Accounting History (NAH) literature, focusing on the investigation of the accountant stereotype connotations in the 14th century.

Keywords: Accountant Stereotype, Popular Culture, Merchant-Banker, The Divine Comedy, The Decameron, 14th century

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Molinari, Matteo and Carungu, Jonida, The “Accountant” stereotype in the Florentine Medieval popular culture: “galantuomini” or usurers? (May 05, 2021). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3851289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
686
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cultural Anthropology: History, Theory, Methods & Applications eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies