Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Invention of Double-Entry Bookkeeping

31 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Maxime Izoulet

CEMI-Robert de Sorbon / Lycée Germaine Tillon

Date Written: May 26, 2021

Abstract

Based on the work of Jean Fourastié, accountant and economist, this article seeks to show that the origins of double-entry bookkeeping are the result of several successive innovations that appeared in Italian commercial enterprises between the 13th and 14th centuries in response to the development of credit and receivables. The three successful innovations that led to the invention of double-entry bookkeeping are thus analyzed in detail from an accounting and logical point of view. This invention, which will have considerable consequences for the emergence of our modern monetary and banking systems, leads to a precise and efficient definition of value, which we still depend on today, especially to understand financial crises.

Keywords: Accounting, Finance, Capitalism, Economic History, Banking, History of Accounting

JEL Classification: A1, B15, B52, E50, M41, N13, N20

Suggested Citation:

Izoulet, Maxime, The Invention of Double-Entry Bookkeeping (May 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3853815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
I Andreica
Double entry bookkeeping vs single entry bookkeeping , volume 73 , p. 282 - 290 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Beaugrand
Plan comptable des Etablissements de Crédit (édition 2020), sur la base d'un ouvrage d'Antoine Sardi, éditions AFGES Posted: 2020
F Braudel
Le modèle italien Posted: 1989
G Comeau
L'achat et la vente à paiement différé Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,283
RANK
88,666
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: Central Banks - Policies & Impacts eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies