Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enlightenment Value Theories and the Three Levels in Fair Value Accounting

Cardao-Pito, T. (2020). "Enlightenment value theories and the three levels in fair value accounting". Accounting History, 20(4), 625-635 https://doi.org/10.1177/1032373220934895

Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Tiago Cardão-Pito

ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa

Date Written: July 26, 2021

Abstract

I cannot endorse Donleavy’s conclusion that “fair value” accounting is derived from the eighteen-century economic thinkers: Anne Robert Turgot; Richard Cantillon; and Adam Smith. In his well-written study, Donleavy seems to misperceive fair value accounting as the reporting of accounting items by their market values. However, fair value accounting also advocates a theoretical explanation of how market prices would be formed and why they would be fair values. It is important to clarify this point, because it leads to two subsequent conclusions. First, that the price/value theory in fair value accounting is quite distinct from Turgot, Cantillon and Smith’s theories on the same matter. For instance, Cantillon and Smith suggested cost-based theories of value, where labor was the key element. Second, it is possible to distinguish fair value accounting from periods where the case for reporting accounting rubrics by market values was promoted based on other theoretical motivations.

Keywords: Adam Smith, Anne Robert Turgot, fair value accounting, labor theory of value, Richard Cantillon, subjective theory of value

Suggested Citation:

Cardão-Pito, Tiago, Enlightenment Value Theories and the Three Levels in Fair Value Accounting (July 26, 2021). Cardao-Pito, T. (2020). "Enlightenment value theories and the three levels in fair value accounting". Accounting History, 20(4), 625-635 https://doi.org/10.1177/1032373220934895, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893789
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies