Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybridity and Conflicting Logics – And What if Not? A Historical Exploration of a XIV-XVI Century Social Entity in Venice

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability and Management

Posted: 14 Sep 2021

Maria Lusiani

Independent; Ca Foscari University of Venice

Chiara Pancot

Ca Foscari University of Venice

Marco Vedovato

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: August 19, 2021

Abstract

This paper sets out to explore how hybrid organizations managed their established institutional complexity in the past, and what place was there for accounting in this endeavor. The paper draws on a historical case study of how a social entity operated in XIV-XVI century Venice. Ca’ di Dio, a hospice providing hospitality and care to poor women, is what today we would call a ‘hybrid organization’, in that it was born at the crossroads of ecclesiastic and public jurisdictions, it was autonomously administered, self-financed, but operated within the public control of the State. It will be found that Ca’ di Dio worked within a complex arrangement of multiple logics, that these logics were not particularly in tension or conflict, rather entwined, and that accounting was a central practice to manage Ca’ di Dio activities, despite its non-commercial nature. The paper thus challenges both the assumption that hybrid organizing is a contemporary phenomenon, and the assumption that it necessarily entails conflicting logics, while also enhancing the trivial, but overlooked, role of accounting as primarily a calculative tool for everyday management in hybrid organizations.

Keywords: Hybrid organizations, social entities, multiple logics, tensions, accounting, historical analysis.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lusiani, Maria and Pancot, Chiara and Vedovato, Marco, Hybridity and Conflicting Logics – And What if Not? A Historical Exploration of a XIV-XVI Century Social Entity in Venice (August 19, 2021). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability and Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3909845
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
194
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies