Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of U.S. Regulation and the Standard-Setting Process for Financial Reporting: 1930s to the Present

Foundations and Trends in Accounting, vol. 15, no. 3 (2021)

79 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2021

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

This article is a recounting and explanation of the series of episodes from the 1930s to the present on the evolution of the U.S. regulatory and standard-setting process for financial reporting by companies in the private sector. By gathering together all of these events and developments in a single article, it is hoped that researchers will come to appreciate the historical antecedents that have shaped today’s institutional reality for both the SEC and the FASB. An extensive list of references to books, articles, press reports, and other documents has been provided to enable readers to obtain a fuller story of this evolution. An appendix completes the article, containing the first published list of the SEC Chief Accountants from 1935 to the present.

Keywords: regulation, standard setting, financial reporting, SEC, FASB

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., Evolution of U.S. Regulation and the Standard-Setting Process for Financial Reporting: 1930s to the Present (September 8, 2021). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, vol. 15, no. 3 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3919365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3919365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
204 References
The FASB's lack of attentiveness to investor perspectives has continued to be an issue to the present day. 43 SEC proposes a rule in 2008 to require U.S. issuers to adopt IFRS, but it is not carried forward In August 2008, the SEC approved a proposed rule containing a roadmap to require U.S. issuers to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in a series of stages culminating in , p. 505 - 517 Posted: 2008
Becker
FASB launches its Accounting Standards Codification Posted: 2009
44 The Codification was intended to simplify user access to the approximately 8,000 pages of GAAP through a single database, organized into some 90 topical groupings. The Codification also includes the relevant guidance issued by the SEC. Only the literature included in the Codification is authoritative GAAP, thus making the previously issued GAAP hierarchy inoperative. The FASB's future changes in GAAP have been in the form of Accounting Standards Updates; as few as seven and as many as 29 have been issued in the years since then. FAF creates Private Company Council in 2012 to propose standards to the FASB 43 See the letter dated October 26, 2020 from the Alliance of Concerned Investors to the SEC Chair and Commissioners, which alleges that the interests of investors are given insufficient attention by the FASB, especially in its agenda-setting process. The letter was re-sent to the SEC Chair and Commissioners, following the installation of Chair Gary Gensler
after the FASB had issued 167 Statements of Financial Accounting Standards and seven Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts, as well as Technical Bulletins, Staff Positions, and Interpretations, the Board unveiled its Accounting Standards Codification Posted: 2009-06
FASB Accounting Standards Codification
ProjectUpdatePage&cid=900000011088 References Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements and Supplements Posted: 1957
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
235,061
1 Citations
204 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies