Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Music: The Role of Giuseppe Verdi in Shaping the 19th Century Culture Industry

Sage Journals- Accounting History, Volume 26, Article 4, pages 612-639, 2021

61 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2021

Federica Balluchi

Parma University, Department of Economics and Management

Arianna Lazzini

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE)

Riccardo Torelli

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Department of Economic and Social Sciences

Date Written: September 22, 2021

Abstract

The aim of this research is to investigate the contribution of Giuseppe Verdi and Casa Ricordi in shaping the 19th century music culture industry by adopting a new perspective on accounting and history. In 19th century Italy, opera represented an important phenomenon, both artistically and socially, playing a fundamental role of intermediary between society and the political sphere. The complex relationships between the composer (artist) and the publisher (cultural intermediary) are analysed in the specific field of opera music, outlining the evolution and interweaving of artistic, social, and economic aspects. The study embraces the period 1839–1893 and examines the economic and private relations between Giuseppe Verdi and Casa Ricordi and their impacts on the culture industry to this day. This paper’s novelty is to adopt a historical perspective to broaden accounting into the field of high music offering possibilities for further studies.

Keywords: cultural industry, performing arts, copyright, Giuseppe Verdi, Casa Ricordi

Suggested Citation:

Balluchi, Federica and Lazzini, Arianna and Torelli, Riccardo, Accounting and Music: The Role of Giuseppe Verdi in Shaping the 19th Century Culture Industry (September 22, 2021). Sage Journals- Accounting History, Volume 26, Article 4, pages 612-639, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3928541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
140 References
Il Trovatore" (1882), n. 142. Contratto di nolo per il
Contratto di nolo per il , p. 1889 - 1890 Posted: 1867
Contratto di cessione del libretto di "Simon Boccanegra" e approvazione di cessione, 14.2.1857, modulo prestampato completato da annotazioni manoscritte
Contratto di cessione dell'opera "Don Carlos
Contratto di cessione dell'opera "Don Carlos
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
631,616
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Music Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies