Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Properly Identified Imaginary Needs, An Inaccurately Proposed Methodology: The Case of Rochester School of Accountancy’s Positive Accounting Methodology

Accounting and Management Information Systems

39 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

Research Question: Whether accounting research has been in a better status after the domination of Rochester School of Accountancy’s Positive Accounting Methodology.

Motivation: This study revisits the debate of the validity of Rochester school of accountancy's positive methodology. Rochester school of accountancy's positive accounting research has properly identified the assumed imaginary need of the US market. While positive accounting methodology may not be scientific under various accounts for science, it has contributed to accounting methodologically.

Idea: Restricting financial accounting on issues related to decision-usefulness and perceiving corporate reporting as a product of accounting choices from an agency theory perspective constrains other dimensions of reality. Any restrictions to definitions of the role of accounting and its function (Glauter and Underdowen, 1974) blocks profoundly deep-rooted in contextual factors such as a country's social, political, and economic environment that all make up accounting which supposedly needs to be considered (Hellmann et al., 2010) in properly theorizing comprehensively practiced accounting.

Data: Extensive writings have that documented internationally throughout time have been looked over.

Tools: An analytical and critical examination has been conducted upon internationally accounting literature in a wide-ranging manner to provide an evaluation regarding Rochester school of accountancy's positive accounting research.

Findings: The positive accounting methodology of the Rochester school of accountancy has been criticized by several accounting researchers for decades and even deem it disappointment and probably shame. Yet, Watts and Zimmerman declared themselves prime candidates. Its prevalence is the rhetoric of scientific inquiry. A measure of the failure of the so-called positive accounting methodology has achieved lays in its inability to become universal because differences in institutional environments persevere in the world.

Contribution: Revisiting the debate of the validity of Rochester school of accountancy's positive methodology potentially contributes to our knowledge in assessing its legitimate prevalence in academic accounting research. New accounting researchers and scholars need to be aware of the predominant theoretical structure that governs the empirical financial paradigm and its limitation. This is especially significant to accounting researcher who has been intellectually trained under the positivistic tradition of economics.


Keywords: Rochester School of Accountancy; Positive Accounting, Accounting Research, Research Methodology; Accounting Education; Rhetoric; Science; Theorizing, Theorization; Accounting Theory; Paradigm; Domination; Elitism; Role of Accounting.

JEL Classification: M14; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed, Properly Identified Imaginary Needs, An Inaccurately Proposed Methodology: The Case of Rochester School of Accountancy’s Positive Accounting Methodology (December 17, 2021). Accounting and Management Information Systems, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
227 References
A Y A Adbulahakam
Analyzing Fundamental of Positive Accounting Theory and Its Role in Building Standards and Selecting Among Alternatives: Analysis and Application Posted: 2008
B I Alameen
Accounting choices from positive accounting theory perspective
Accounting , volume 4 , issue 12 , p. 44 - 48 Posted: 1997
K R Al-Adeem
A need to theorize corporations: An accounting perspective
International Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 Posted: 2017
K R Al-Adeem
Role of doctoral education in shaping minds and thinking: Reflection on my doctoral education at Case Western Reserve University
International Journal of Critical Accounting , volume 9 , issue 5-6 , p. 494 - 513 Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Reem Alshiban , Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem
Empirically Investigating the Disclosure of Nonfinancial Information: A Content Study on Corporations Listed in the Saudi Capital Market
Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 2022, 15, 251 · 23 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 34
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem
The Demand for Reporting Environmental Sustainability and Social Responsibility: Insight From Saudi Arabia Corporate Reports
Journal of Ethics in Entrepreneurship and Technology, volume 4, issue 1, 2024[<a href="https://doi.org/10.1108/JEET-06-2024-0013" rel="nofollow">10.1108/JEET-06-2024-0013</a>] · 27 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
704
RANK
713,739
2 Citations
227 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies