Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The sociology of exclusion: A knowledge synthesis of imperialism and post-colonialism in accounting research

Ufodike, A. (forthcoming). The sociology of exclusion: A knowledge synthesis of imperialism and post-colonialism in accounting research. Accounting Perspectives.

47 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022 Last revised: 5 Feb 2025

Akolisa Ufodike

York University - Atkinson School of Administrative Studies; Graduate Studies in Public Policy & Law

Date Written: November 23, 2021

Abstract

The ways in which accountancy (accounting, accountability, and accountants) has been a device of imperialism, colonialism, and postcolonialism, and therefore has had deleterious effects on Indigenous peoples in former colonies and continues to negatively impact immigrants in postcolonial OECD countries, is under-researched. This structured literature review synthesizes studies in the accounting literature that have investigated imperialism, colonialism, and postcolonialism and identifies opportunities for future research. This study is part of a broader research project that reviewed 161 articles on accounting and discrimination. This article, based on 65 of the articles reviewed for the broader project, discusses existing knowledge on imperialism, colonialism, and postcolonialism. The author finds that the exclusion of Indigenous peoples in colonial times is shaped by perpetual oppressive relations. In the postcolonial United States and Old Commonwealth countries (Canada, Australia, and New Zealand), these power relations are sustained by professions through the continuing exclusion of racialized people and immigrants, many from previous colonies. This study proposes future research directions to advance the decolonization of accounting research by foregrounding alternative perspectives of Indigeneity—such as Black Indigeneity—and enabling accounting scholars to confront the various subthemes of imperialism and postcolonialism in accounting, including Western accounting and accountability, professionalization, emancipatory accounting, and Indigenous knowledge and accounts.

Keywords: Anti-Black Racism, Discrimination, Diversity, Imperialism, Intersectionality, Sociology of Exclusion, Sociology of Inclusion, Structured Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Ufodike, Akolisa, The sociology of exclusion: A knowledge synthesis of imperialism and post-colonialism in accounting research (November 23, 2021). Ufodike, A. (forthcoming). The sociology of exclusion: A knowledge synthesis of imperialism and post-colonialism in accounting research. Accounting Perspectives., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4006758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4006758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
C Adams , C Larrinaga-Gonz Alez , A R Belal , D L Owen
The views of corporate managers on the current state of, and future prospects for, social reporting in Bangladesh
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 472 - 494 Posted: 2007
C Alawattage , D Wickramasinghe
Weapons of the weak: Subalterns' emancipatory accounting in Ceylon Tea
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 379 - 404 Posted: 2009
M Annisette
Imperialism and the professions: The education and certification of accountants in Trinidad and Tobago
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 631 - 659 Posted: 2000
M Annisette , V U Trivedi
Globalization, paradox and the (un)making of identities: Immigrant Chartered Accountants of India in Canada
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Samantha Taylor , Bryce Cross , Anika Nissen , Janine McGregor , Naomi Richards
From the Classroom to Journal Publication: A Guide to Publishing Accounting Instructional Pedagogical Resources
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 49 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,710
RANK
403,275
1 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Women, History & Culture eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies