Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historical Developments in the Accountancy Profession, Financial Reporting, and Accounting Theory

Emerald Studies in the Development of Accounting Thought, 2019

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Charles Richard Baker

Adelphi University - School of Business

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This latest volume of Studies in the Development of Accounting Thought, edited by Martin E. Persson, contains ten manuscripts, seven being previously unpublished, authored by C. Richard Baker during an academic career that spans four decades. Historical Developments in the Accountancy Profession, Financial Reporting, and Accounting Theory is divided into two thematic sections. The first covers developments in accounting thought on financial reporting and the accountancy profession, whereas the second section covers developments related to accounting measurements and theory. The historical examination of the development of accounting thought serves as a unifying theme throughout this edited volume, which attempts to pick up on various understudied threads of academic and professional initiatives over the past several hundred years. The material is of value to anyone interested in the intellectual history of the accounting discipline.

Keywords: Accounting History, Financial Reporting, Accounting Theory, Accounting Measurements

JEL Classification: B31, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Charles Richard and Persson, Martin Emanuel, Historical Developments in the Accountancy Profession, Financial Reporting, and Accounting Theory (2021). Emerald Studies in the Development of Accounting Thought, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4039213
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Innovation Finance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies