Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Owned Citibank?

69 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2022

Charles W. Calomiris

Columbia University - Columbia Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Elliot Oh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We study factors influencing individuals’ decisions to purchase Citibank stock during the 1920s. Ownership was encouraged by proximity to New York and higher wealth. Lack of familiarity was also an important barrier. The establishment of Citibank branches within a U.S. county or a foreign country was associated with a large increase in share ownership in that location, ceteris paribus. Within the New York City metropolitan area, individual characteristics related to wealth, knowledge, and one’s influence within the New York City Business network increased the probability of becoming a Citibank shareholder. Business associates in the network were an important influence on purchase decisions. Connections with Citibank officers and directors, or with people who had such connections, increased the probability of buying Citibank shares. Connections with other Citibank shareholders also increased the probability of buying Citibank shares. Connections with officers and directors of other large New York banks reduced the probability of owning Citibank, presumably because it increased familiarity with a close substitute for Citibank shares. Network influence reflected more than the transmission of inside information; executives imitated other’s stock buying behavior, which provides evidence of the importance of familiarity for purchases. The role of some network influences, like other identifiable influences, became less important during the price boom of the late 1920s, perhaps reflecting the rising importance of other means of increasing familiarity during the price boom (i.e., media coverage).

Keywords: bank stocks, stock purchases, familiarity bias

Suggested Citation:

Calomiris, Charles W. and Oh, Elliot, Who Owned Citibank?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4046499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4046499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Abhijit Banerjee , Arun Chandrasekhar , Esther Duflo , Matthew O Jackson
The Diffusion of Microfinance
Science , volume 341 Posted: 2013
Jonathan Baskin , Paul J Barron , Miranti
A History of Corporate Finance Posted: 1997
Geert Bekaert , K Hoyem , W Hu , Enrichetta Ravina
Who Is Internationally Diversified: Evidence from 401(k) Plans of 296 Firms Posted: 2016
Adolf A Berle , Gardiner C Jr , Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
591
RANK
658,539
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies