Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Theories and Accounting Practice At The Dawn of 'Plano Oficial De Contabilidade'

Posted: 2 May 2022

Jose Albino Nogueira

Independent

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

Accounting assumes an essential role in today's complex social organisation as a structuring pillar for managers, analysts, accountants, and other users and society. Accounting information provides a common framework and instruments of representation for the financial performance of entities. It has become a determinant element of society's way, and the economy is organised, being even characterised by Goethe as one of the best inventions of human intelligence (Carqueja, 2011).

Until the XX century, this convergence process was done mainly through educational tools such as exchanging best practices and introducing bookkeeping rules. However, as the relevance of accounting grew, some theorisations on its role started to be proposed. The theories of accounts were “aimed at finding the basic rules of keeping books, sought to disentangle the ‘mystery’ of double-entry and mainly concerned with basic rules for keeping books (Mattessich, 2008, p. 23). However, as accounting developed more into science, the debate evolved from analysing the mere mechanics of bookkeeping to understanding the underlying characteristics of financial information. During this process, accounting moved from a mechanism to capture values owed and received and started to assume the role of a system that intended to provide necessary and valuable economic information to sustain the financial decisions of its users (Mattessich, 2008, p. 23).

However, the need for standard-setting was not driven by the evolution in accounting thought but essentially by the evolution in the economic and political environment and the need to ensure consistency on the financial information. This was also the case in Portugal. During the second half of the XX century, Portugal economy started to suffer relevant changes. Departing from a traditionally a closed economy with limited relations with the exterior, concentrated in a small number of big corporations dominating prominent families ”allied by marriage” and funded by banks that were “often members of the boards of directors” (Caria & Rodrigues, 2014, p. 231) the Portuguese economy started to trail an internationalisation process. Consequently and as a member of multinational institutions such as the United Nations and the OECD, Portugal needed to gather the necessary financial information to share financial information with its counterparts and sustain its tax system that changed from a normal or presumed income basis to a real income basis.

With this study, we intend to gather some insights on this evolution observed in accounting thought and the accounting practice during the XX century, and that paved the theoretical pathway that influenced the decisions made during accounting standardisation that led to Plano Oficial de Contabilidade (POC) in 1977.


Keywords: Accounting though, Plano Oficial de Contabilidade

JEL Classification: M41, B20

Suggested Citation:

Nogueira, Jose Albino, Accounting Theories and Accounting Practice At The Dawn of 'Plano Oficial De Contabilidade' (June 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073052
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies