Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review on Michel Foucault in Accounting Research

The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, 10(1), 77-92

16 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to review the adoption of Michel Foucault (1926 - 1984), the dominant French postmodern philosopher and historian of the 20th century in accounting research. It seems that with time the theories and approach of Foucault have received popularity in many research areas. The theories and approach introduced by Foucault have been used by the accounting researchers over the years. A number of Foucault’s ideas, e.g., power, knowledge, governmentality, and domination and the approach of tailoring the history have received attention in accounting research. This paper reviews the influence of Foucault in Accounting Research through identifying the major platforms of Foucauldian approach in accounting, trends of adoption over the years and theme and findings of the studies in accounting research. This study uses the approach of qualitative study where the document (research paper) analysis is executed cautiously. A number of selected papers have been analyzed to understand the influence of Foucault from various dimensions in accounting research. It is expected that the review will contribute in the area of critical accounting theory by giving a notion on Foucault’s influence in accounting research. It is accepted that Foucault is difficult to understand. Therefore, apart from depending on the primary sources of Foucault, this study uses secondary sources to understand Foucault and thereby acknowledges the limitation of understanding the concepts of Foucault.

Keywords: Michel Foucault; Accounting Research; Review; Post-modernism; Critical Accounting Theory

JEL Classification: B50; B52; M40

Suggested Citation:

Rajib, Md Salah Uddin, A Review on Michel Foucault in Accounting Research (June 30, 2021). The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, 10(1), 77-92 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
P Armstrong
The discourse of Michel Foucault: A sociological encounter
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 27 , p. 29 - 42 Posted: 2015
P Armstrong
The influence of Michel Foucault on accounting research
Critical perspectives on accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 55 Posted: 1994
K Boll
Shady car dealings and taxing work practices: An ethnography of a tax audit process. Accounting, and Society , volume 39 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2014
D J Cooper , T Tinker
Accounting and praxis: Marx after Foucault
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 3 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
RANK
274,135
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies