Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming Accounting Education in a Transition Economy: A Case Study of Armenia

International Management Development Association, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 30 May 2003

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

This paper describes and summarizes the accounting education segment of the USAID Accounting Reform project in Armenia. After a brief introduction that discusses the history and culture of Armenia, the paper goes into a discussion of the major aspects of accounting education reform. Education reform included replacing the accounting curriculum of all the major universities and institutions in Armenia as well as training existing certified accountants and auditors and enterprise accountants. Accounting training was provided for other groups as well. There is also some discussion of the new certification model, which closely parallels the ACCA model, and some of the implementation problems that arose during the course of the reforms.

Keywords: Accounting Reform, Accounting Education, Transition Economy, Armenia, USAID

JEL Classification: F35, I20, J44, L89, M41, O15, O22, P21

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Reforming Accounting Education in a Transition Economy: A Case Study of Armenia. International Management Development Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=408980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.408980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
G Bournoutian
The History of the Armenian Genocide: Ethnic Conflict from the Balkans to the Caucasus
A Documentary Record. Mazda Publishers. Dadrian , p. 1626 - 1796 Posted: 1995
M Derdarian
Vergeen: A Survivor of the Armenian Genocide Posted: 1998
A Enthoven , Y Sokolov , S Bychkova , V Kovalev , M Semenova , M Friedman , R Friedman , R Hewsen
Accounting, Auditing and Taxation in the Russian Federation. The IMA Foundation for Applied Research and the Center for International Accounting
Armenia Investment & Business Guide Posted: 1915
B Johnson , K Holmes , M Kirkpatrick
Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,679
RANK
171,101
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Labor: Human Capital eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Investment Climate in Armenia: Some Legal, Economic and Ethical Issues

By Robert W. Mcgee

Accounting Reform in Armenia

By Robert W. Mcgee

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies