Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirically Investigating the Presence of Positive Accounting Research as the Meta- Theory for Accounting Academics: Further Evidence from Saudi Arabia

The Journal of Accounting and Management, Vol. 11, No. 3, 2021

24 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2022

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Date Written: September 27, 2021

Abstract

his study empirically explores the extent to which accounting academics in Saudi Arabia apply agency theory conceptually and methodologically. All accounting academics in Saudi Arabia have been awarded decorates abroad from various institutions worldwide, which makes them suitable subjects to investigate whether they are dominated by positive accounting methodology to assess its global impact. Fifty respondents volunteered to take the web-based questionnaire. Almost reaching an agreement that agency theory was originated in accounting conventions, sampled accounting academics concur that such a theory is an accounting theory. Controversially, while they agree with propositions of Jensen and Meckling, (1976), they are unsure that agency theory is the most suitable theory for accounting research and are undecided in deeming the view that C.E.O.s as agents and shareholders as principals is the only correct way to build understanding on the nature of the corporation. They are generally aware of positive accounting methodology and are exposed to it in their doctoral studies. Not constraining accounting inquiry to phenomena that behave rationally, they nonetheless assume rationality in almost all observed behavior in accounting.

Keywords: Accounting academics; accounting sociology; Saudi Arabia; agency theory; doctoral education

JEL Classification: B0; B3; M1; M15; M41

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed, Empirically Investigating the Presence of Positive Accounting Research as the Meta- Theory for Accounting Academics: Further Evidence from Saudi Arabia (September 27, 2021). The Journal of Accounting and Management, Vol. 11, No. 3, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
K Al-Adeem
Who decides what is publishable? Empirical study on the influence of a journal's Editorial Board on the Observed Paradigm Shift in US academic accounting research
North American Accounting Studies , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2019
K Al-Adeem
Critique and an extension of Nohora García's Understanding Mattessich and Ijiri: A study of Accounting Thought
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 420 - 438 Posted: 2019
K R Al-Adeem
Role of doctoral education in shaping minds and thinking: Reflection on my doctoral education at Case Western Reserve University
International Journal of Critical Accounting , volume 9 , issue 5/6 , p. 494 - 513 Posted: 2017
K R Al-Adeem
Properly identified imaginary needs, an inaccurately proposed methodology: The case of Rochester School of Accountancy's positive accounting methodology. Working paper , volume 26 Posted: 2010
Load more
2 Citations
Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem
Properly Identified Imaginary Needs, An Inaccurately Proposed Methodology: The Case of Rochester School of Accountancy’s Positive Accounting Methodology
Accounting and Management Information Systems · 39 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem
إضافة من ديانة الإسلام إلى نظرية البحث (المعرفة) لجون ديوي في الجمع بين المنهاجين الاستنباطي والاستقرائي لبناء النظريات (An Extension from Islam to John Dewey’s Theory of Inquiry in Combining Deduction and Induction in Theory Construction)
المجلة السعودية للدراسات الفلسفية Saudi Journal of Philosophical Studies, 2022, · 41 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 62
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
670
RANK
605,632
2 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies