Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Brief History of U.S. Approaches to Corporate Tax Integration and Some Lessons

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2022-47

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2022-13

16 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2022 Last revised: 15 Jul 2022

George K. Yin

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: July 12, 2022

Abstract

This essay, to be included as a chapter in a volume on corporate taxation, briefly reviews U.S. efforts to achieve corporate tax integration, focusing especially on the Civil War years when enduring problems first surfaced and Congress approved four integration approaches in three years. The review highlights the important role corporate distribution policy has played in solving the integration puzzle. By distributing or retaining earnings, corporations can either advance or block integration objectives. Somewhat counterintuitively, the historical experience suggests the most feasible way to satisfy integration’s goals may be to retain two moderate and comparable, though separate, taxes on corporate income.

Keywords: corporate tax integration, dividend exclusion, shareholder credit, dividends paid deduction

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Yin, George K., A Brief History of U.S. Approaches to Corporate Tax Integration and Some Lessons (July 12, 2022). Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2022-47, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2022-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Tariff Act of 1894, ch , volume 349
Id
, volume 554
See W Eliot Brownlee , Federal Taxation , I N America
A HISTORY , volume 81 Posted: 2016
See Marjorie , E Kornhauser
Corporate Regulation and the Origins of the Corporate Income Tax, 66 IND
L. J , volume 53 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
972
RANK
347,495
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies