Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nicholas Dopuch (1929–2018): Editor, Mentor, and Harbinger of a Quantitative Accounting Research Revolution

Accounting Horizons, Vol 36, Issue 2, pp. 167-177, 2022.

Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Jennifer A. Reynolds-Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Date Written: June 27, 2022

Abstract

Nicholas Dopuch (1929–2018), most recently on the faculty of the Olin Business School at Washington University in St. Louis, was an extraordinary accounting thinker, influential journal editor, prolific accounting researcher, and treasured colleague and mentor. By documenting his early upbringing, academic career, and professional activities, this memorial article summarizes the profound impact that Professor Dopuch had on the accounting academy and the many scholars and students with whom he worked. The article also analyzes Dopuch's body of scholarship, and, in so doing, complements Kinney and Libby's (1999) earlier assessment of his foundational contribution to research on credible financial reporting.

Keywords: biography, Journal of Accounting Research, capital market research, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, University of Chicago, Washington University in St. Louis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Moehrle, Stephen R. and Persson, Martin Emanuel and Reynolds-Moehrle, Jennifer A., Nicholas Dopuch (1929–2018): Editor, Mentor, and Harbinger of a Quantitative Accounting Research Revolution (June 27, 2022). Accounting Horizons, Vol 36, Issue 2, pp. 167-177, 2022., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168231
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies