Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Liberal State and the Spanish Seizure Process of 1855

34 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022

Juan Baños

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Warwick Funnell

University of Kent - Kent Business School

Abstract

Accounting practices were essential to the transformation of Spain as a liberal State which began in 1835 with national seizures of properties and assets controlled by the Catholic Church and Town Halls, culminating with the 1855 seizure process. Informed by Foucault’s concept of governmentality, this paper identifies the role and importance of accounting in the enactment of the seizure process that claimed to provide the means to address a worsening national debt and to replace the values and relationships of the absolutist kingdom of the Ancien Regime with the political principles of liberalism. This was to form the basis of a modern capitalist State at a time of great political, social and economic turmoil. Ultimately, rather than helping to achieve the liberal aims of the seizure process accounting practices were used to help the dominant political classes to further promote their interests when most property sales were to already large property owners, which confirmed that the real aim of the seizure process was to further increase their wealth and, thus, political power.

Keywords: Accounting History, Inequalities, Liberal State, Seizure

Suggested Citation:

Baños, Juan and Funnell, Warwick, Accounting for the Liberal State and the Spanish Seizure Process of 1855. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4180777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J M Amis , K A Munir , T B Lawrence , P Hirsch , A Mcgahan
Inequality, Institutions and Organizations
Organization Studies , volume 39 , issue 9 , p. 1131 - 1152 Posted: 2018
J M Antequera
La desamortización eclesiástica: considerada en sus diferentes aspectos y relaciones Posted: 1885
A Bahamonde , J Martínez , Xix Siglo , Cátedra Madrid , J Baños , C Álvarez-Dardet , F Carrasco , F Gutiérrez
Govern (mentality), Mapping Diversity and Accounting: The Influence of the Enlightened People in Two Spanish Cases
Historia de España , volume 41 , p. 181 - 210 Posted: 2005
J Baños , W ( Funnell
War or the business of God: Sacred mission, accounting and Spanish military hospitals in the 18th century
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 434 - 459 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies