Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History and Future of EU Taxation According to Frans Vanistendael: Inspiration for a Constructive and Critical Dialogue

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 3 ; p. 377-405

Posted: 28 Nov 2022

Peter Essers

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 11, 2022

Abstract

This contribution deals with the history and future of EU taxation based on Frans Vanistendael’s legacy on European tax law, especially on his view on the history and future of EU taxation as expressed in numerous speeches and articles, analysing and commenting on developments in EU taxation and, in his eyes, challenges, unwanted standstill situations and obstacles. Vanistendael’s publications show a constant drive: he was concerned about the deficient decision-making process in the European Union mainly because of the requirement of unanimity for decisions affecting taxation. Also, he tirelessly pointed at the tax deficits that are obstacles to achieve an internal market and, after the introduction of the euro, an effective and sustainable economic and monetary union. In this respect, Vanistendael consistently criticized the failures and weaknesses of the main European institutions – the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament and the ECJ. The present war between Russia and Ukraine proves that we need the European Union more than ever to safeguard the European way of life and to defend ourselves against totalitarian regimes that deny and despise democracy, human rights and the rule of law.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: history of taxation, tax law, EU tax law, euro, monetary policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Essers, Peter, History and Future of EU Taxation According to Frans Vanistendael: Inspiration for a Constructive and Critical Dialogue (July 11, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 3 ; p. 377-405, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194754
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies