Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A History Of Critical Tax in Australia

Kathryn James, ‘A History of Critical Tax in Australia’ (2022) 51(2) Australian Tax Review 118 (draft copy)

30 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Kathryn James

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Law School

Date Written: September 6, 2022

Abstract

This article provides an historical overview and assessment of the contributions of the critical tax movement in Australia. Infanti and Crawford define critical tax as “an approach that treats taxpayers as more than the sum of their economic transactions” to examine “how tax law impacts individuals and groups along a variety of identity axes (eg, race, gender, ability and sexual orientation)”. On a broad reading of this definition, a critical tax movement can be characterised as one that is critical of tax. Under this broad view, Australia has a deep critical tax lineage that has variously highlighted the ways in which tax laws benefit some groups over others and the consequences that attach. However, on a narrower view of critical tax as one constituted by critical methods in analysing the ways in which tax laws intersect to further marginalise a wide range of groups, the history of Australian critical tax scholarship is more circumscribed. Under this measure only the work of feminist scholars and activists could lay claim to constituting a movement as such. The article takes stock of the contributions of the critical tax movement (broadly and narrowly conceived) including the movement’s scholarship, activism, policy achievements, limitations and blind spots especially in relation to race. It concludes by articulating a path forward for the development of a more coherent and deeply critical tax movement in Australia.

Keywords: Tax history, critical tax, Australian tax reform

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

James, Kathryn, A History Of Critical Tax in Australia (September 6, 2022). Kathryn James, ‘A History of Critical Tax in Australia’ (2022) 51(2) Australian Tax Review 118 (draft copy), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4211100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
RANK
271,971
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies