Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Accounting Standards in Modern China as a Reflection of the Country's Challenging Shift to a Market Economy

(2022) 49(1) Accounting Historians Journal 39-51

14 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2022

Yue Mei Guo

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: September 9, 2022

Abstract

After 30 years of orthodox socialism, in 1979 China opened the door to a market economy. The unleashed entrepreneurial spirit and rapid accumulation of savings and investment led to unparalleled economic growth. Remarkably, investment, companies and even stock exchanges proceeded without accounting standards as known in the rest of the world. It would be another quarter century before Chinese accounting standards incorporated the fundamental accounting principles needed for guidance in the context of a modern, flexible, and ever evolving, market economy. The article attributes the lag to a combination of government control over accounting standards and the legacy of socialist concepts that equated accounting with bookkeeping rather than the modern accounting goal of accurately valuing both receipts and outgoings and the value of entitlements and obligations to reveal to current and prospective owners, investors, and lenders the true worth of an enterprise.

Keywords: Chinese accounting standards; socialist market system accounting; Chinese GAAP; Chinese IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Yue Mei and Krever, Richard, The Evolution of Accounting Standards in Modern China as a Reflection of the Country's Challenging Shift to a Market Economy (September 9, 2022). (2022) 49(1) Accounting Historians Journal 39-51 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4214022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
381,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies