Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains : The History of the Principle of Symmetry, the Internal Order of Article 13 and the Dynamic Interpretation of the Changes in the 2010 Commentary on "Forming Part"And "Effectively Connected"

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2013), no. 1 ; p. 3-98

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Hans Pijl

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 18, 2013

Abstract

This contribution discusses the symmetry in the attribution of taxing rights of income and capital gains/capital in a historic context. It describes the unsolved hierarchy problems that were introduced with the introduction of article 13(4) in 2003. Article 13(4) has also disturbed the previously balanced coordination of articles 7 and 13 in paragraph 4 of the Commentary on article 13. The contribution criticizes the late (2010) introduction of the new Commentaries explaining "effectively connected with" and "forming part of the business property of" a PE.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, allocation of taxing rights, capital gains, treaty interpretation, PE, effectively connected income

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pijl, Hans, Capital Gains : The History of the Principle of Symmetry, the Internal Order of Article 13 and the Dynamic Interpretation of the Changes in the 2010 Commentary on "Forming Part"And "Effectively Connected" (February 18, 2013). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2013), no. 1 ; p. 3-98, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226615
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies