Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stamp, Seligman and the Drafting of the 1923 Experts' Report on Double Taxation

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2013), no. 3 ; p. 368-392

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Sunita Jogarajan

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: September 23, 2013

Abstract

In 1923, the League of Nations published the Report by the Experts on Double Taxation ("the Report"). The Report discusses the economic consequences of international double taxation, the general principles which govern international competence in taxation and the application of those principles for the avoidance of double taxation. While there is some question as to the extent of the impact of the Report on the development of bilateral tax treaties practically, there can be little doubt that the Report was a seminal work in the intellectual debate. Utilizing original archival research, this paper considers how the Report came to be produced in its final form. The chronological narrative highlights the views of the individual authors, the considerations that influenced each one and the eventual compromises reflected in the Report. The paper finds that the authors were unable to ignore practical issues and the likely inertness of economic forces in formulating their final conclusions, despite their theoretical leanings.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: double taxation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jogarajan, Sunita, Stamp, Seligman and the Drafting of the 1923 Experts' Report on Double Taxation (September 23, 2013). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2013), no. 3 ; p. 368-392, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226620
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies