Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could Accounting Have Saved itself from the Antitrust Laws? Revisiting the Antitrust Investigations into the U.S. Accounting Profession 1966-1990.

39 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Michael Doron

California State University, Northridge

Date Written: September 23, 2022

Abstract

While the role of lobbying in the U.S. public accounting profession has been the subject of several studies, what has not been addressed is the profession’s historic reluctance to lobby and the impact this may have had on the profession. This paper provides a case study of public accounting’s interaction with government and the need for the profession to articulate the impact of government policies on the practice of accounting. It reviews and assesses the antitrust investigations by the U.S. Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission that led to the repeal of the profession’s anticompetitive ethics rules, rules that had governed American public accounting for most of the twentieth century. These investigations are often blamed for an increased competitive atmosphere in public accounting that prioritized growth and profitability over quality in attest services. Using records obtained from Freedom of Information Act requests and archival sources, the paper attempts to reconstruct the government’s motivations and the efforts of the American Institute of CPAs. I find a troubling lack of understanding of the audit profession by executive branch regulators and Congress and a reticence by the AICPA to advocate for the profession that led to what many observers see as a profound misapplication of the antitrust laws. While this study deals only with the United States, similar regulatory changes took place in Canada, the UK, Australia and New Zealand.

Keywords: accounting history, regulation, antitrust, audit, lobbying.

Suggested Citation:

Doron, Michael, Could Accounting Have Saved itself from the Antitrust Laws? Revisiting the Antitrust Investigations into the U.S. Accounting Profession 1966-1990. (September 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4228246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4228246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
434
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Antitrust Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies