Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Origins of Destination-Based Income Taxation: Us and International Tax Perspectives

12 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 8 Nov 2022

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: September 28, 2022

Abstract

Value added taxes are destination based, i.e., tax is imposed on imports and exports are zero rated (so that the exporter can receive a refund on VAT collected in previous stages of production). Income taxes, on the other hand, are typically origin based, i.e., imports are deductible and exports are taxed. However, from the very beginnings of the international tax regime, it was recognized that this treatment of income for tax purposes is unfair to destination countries which contribute to the profit created by the market. But the introduction of the permanent establishment (PE) threshold (which dates back to the Austria-Prussia tax treaty of 1889 and was included in the first League of Nations model of 1928) and the arm’s length standard (ALS) for dividing the income among related taxpayers (which dates to the 1930s) significantly limited the ability of destination countries to tax cross-border business income.

At the same time, the US states were developing the concept of formulary apportionment (FA) and from the beginning included sales in the formula, thereby giving the destination state the right to tax part of the business income of a corporation selling goods or services into the destination state with no PE or ALS limitation. Already in the early 1990s critics were arguing that FA including a sales factor (or even based entirely on a sales factor, as US states were increasingly tending to do) were a better alternative for international taxation than PE and the ALS. This critique became more important with the invention of the internet and the rise of the digital economy from 1995 on. By 2013, the OECD acknowledged that the digital economy presented a problem, and in Pillar One of BEPS 2.0 (2018-) provided a partial solution that discards the PE and ALS limits on Amount A (25% of the residual income of the largest multinationals).

The prospects of Pillar One are dim, however, because it requires a multilateral tax convention (MTC) to overcome the PE and ALS limits, and because the US is unlikely to join such a MTC, especially if other countries refuse to abandon gross-based digital services taxes (DSTs). Thus, in my opinion a better option is for destination countries to adopt Pillar One concepts unilaterally, as the US states have done and as India has proposed doing for international taxation.

Keywords: destination basis, Pillar One, BEPS

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., The Origins of Destination-Based Income Taxation: Us and International Tax Perspectives (September 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
294,906
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies