Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the Role of Accounting from Ancient to Contemporary Times: An Attempt to Evaluate the Role of Corporate Accounting

Strategies in Accounting and Management. 3(4), 1-13, Forthcoming

13 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 21 Nov 2022

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

he needs for economic systems that humans constructed throughout time have been the driving force for accounting technological inventions starting with bookkeeping, followed by double-entry bookkeeping. Many civilizations and societies have contributed to the development and advancements of accounting. To this effect, Italy was a fortune county in which the number of “antecedents” converged, and thus, is considered the place of origin for modern accounting. Italy as a society cannot be held solely responsible for its birth, nor can its citizens be credited for the invention of accounting. Attributing the creation of accounting to Pacioli and the dating of its origin to 1449 require further consideration, rendering the questions of who invented accounting and when wide open. In the absence of hard evidence, speculating such a defining moment is the optimal contemporary accounting research produces. Accounting has retained its usefulness in societies through its adaptability to new roles when the master of the business is present. The business model needs to be revisited and retheorized when accounting is not serving well. A social paradox results from financing the operations of corporations and becoming their victims. Accounting cannot compensate for owners’ absence in the business model selected for conducting business. Accounting research inquiring about the role of accounting and questioning its usability and benefit to society labeled ‘critical’ or ‘historical’ or deeming such discourse radical should be one of the mainstream accounting research instead.

Keywords: Accounting origins; Pacioli; Civilization; Accounting roles; Corporate accounting; Corporations; Bookkeeping; Double-entry bookkeeping; Single bookkeeping; Triple bookkeeping.

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed, Revisiting the Role of Accounting from Ancient to Contemporary Times: An Attempt to Evaluate the Role of Corporate Accounting (October 1, 2022). Strategies in Accounting and Management. 3(4), 1-13, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
454,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies