Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Textualism, the Authoritativeness of Congressional Committee Reports, and Stanley Surrey

Law and Contemporary Problems, Forthcoming

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2023-09

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2023-02

29 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 19 Apr 2023

George K. Yin

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: April 18, 2023

Abstract

When Stanley Surrey—possibly the most prominent tax academic of the twentieth century—died in 1984, the school of thought sometimes known as the “new textualism” that has gained such influence in the United States over the last three decades had not yet emerged. Surrey would have been very interested in this development. As revealed in his recently published memoirs, he had extensive first-hand experience with the tax legislative process and recognized early on the connection between that process and statutory interpretation. He would have been surprised by some of the assumptions about the process underlying the new textualist claims as well as recent empirical findings about the process reported by scholars.

This article aims to fill in some of Surrey’s missed engagement. Drawing on his memoirs and other sources, the article describes aspects of the tax legislative process—the preparation of tax statutes and legislative history—of significance to statutory interpretation and the positions of the new textualists. Importantly, the description is at the granular level at which Surrey experienced it, material not generally included in standard political science or legal scholarship on the topic. After considering the on-the-ground special features of the tax legislative process, this article contends that in interpreting tax statutes, courts should rely upon both textual canons and other common tools of judicial interpretation (questioned by recent scholar-empiricists) and legislative history (questioned by textualists). The article also explains why, contrary to the claims of textualists, pre-enactment committee reports of all federal legislation, not just tax legislation, are authoritative evidence of statutory meaning.

Keywords: Textualism, legislative history, legislative process, statutory interpretation, committee reports, bill-drafting, canons

JEL Classification: A20, H11, H20, K34, K41, N82, P48

Suggested Citation:

Yin, George K., Textualism, the Authoritativeness of Congressional Committee Reports, and Stanley Surrey (April 18, 2023). Law and Contemporary Problems, Forthcoming, Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2023-09, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2023-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,514
RANK
199,553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies