Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Historical Origins of the Multilateral Tax Convention

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-007

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 23-007

40 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2023 Last revised: 10 May 2023

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Eran Lempert

Independent

Date Written: December 21, 2022

Abstract

This paper will survey the efforts to create a multilateral tax convention (MTC) from the beginnings of the international tax regime to the present day. The paper’s main contribution is to provide a historical analysis of the (failed) efforts to create a MTC from the beginnings of the ITR until the League of Nations (as contained in Part 1 to this paper). Part 2 of the paper serves to provide a brief modern context to the historical analysis from Part 1, covering why the multilateral instrument (MLI) that was included in BEPS 1.0 is not a true MTC, and secondly points to the BEPS 2.0 effort to develop a true MTC. Part 3 will conclude by discussing under what conditions can a true MTC emerge and what it might look like.

Keywords: Multilateral Tax Convention, BEPS, Pillar One

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Lempert, Eran, The Historical Origins of the Multilateral Tax Convention (December 21, 2022). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-007, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 23-007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4308840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
314,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies