Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Is Measurement In Accounting More Complicated Than In Physics?

34 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023

Daniel Tinkelman

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: December 26, 2022

Abstract

This paper draws on historical examples and accounting literature to explain why the problem of measurement in accounting is complicated and sometimes intractable. It is meant primarily for students. Accounting texts often present rules and practices as given, without considering the underlying difficulties of accounting measurement.

Accounting measurement and reporting raises many questions. Who should have the power to set accounting standards and rules? Who is entitled to see accounting reports, and who is not? Should the goal of accounting be neutral reporting, or should economic consequences and societal impact be considered? Should accounting be confined to financial matters affecting a particular entity, or should nonfinancial matters, and externalities, be tracked? How should costs and benefits be balanced when different parties get the benefits than bear the costs? How should accounting systems vary across different economic and political systems? How frequently should measurements and reports be made? How should assets and liabilities be valued in the presence of uncertainty about their eventual realization? How can costs and revenues be allocated across time and products? Can subjective valuations be used, or must accountants insist on verifiability?

Keywords: Accounting measurement; Measurement issues in accounting; Valuation under uncertainty; power issues in accounting; economic consequences in accounting; accounting allocation issues; accounting entities;

JEL Classification: A11, A12, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Tinkelman, Daniel, Why Is Measurement In Accounting More Complicated Than In Physics? (December 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4312283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4312283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
RANK
524,740
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies