Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bookkeeping, but not for Profit: a Special Form of Double Entry in a 16Th Century Venetian Charity

Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Maria Lusiani

Independent; Ca Foscari University of Venice

Chiara Pancot

Ca Foscari University of Venice

Alan Sangster

Independent

Marco Vedovato

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: January 8, 2023

Abstract

Double entry bookkeeping is considered to involve the recording of monetary amounts and is recognised as consequently facilitating financial reporting concerning the financial stewardship of an entity. This paper presents a unique example of double entry bookkeeping that responds to a different stewardship need, one where quantities are sometimes the focus of interest, while elsewhere it is monetary amounts. Duality is maintained throughout, even in cases where the debit entries are in monetary amounts and the credit entries are in quantities. These findings arose from an investigation into the diffusion of double entry from its banking and commercial roots into the not-for-profit sector in 16th century Venice. Its focus was the accounting practice and the management of a small charitable hospice within the context of its socio-political, economic, and commercial environment. Identification of this hybrid variant form of double entry bookkeeping in the account book of the charity confirms that diffusion of the method had occurred. And, it had done so in a tailored way that was more varied and nuanced by its purpose than might have been anticipated from the texts of Pacioli and the several authors of 16th century Venetian bookkeeping manuals. It is concluded that the differences identified were adopted to delineate responsibility and facilitate assessment of stewardship.

Keywords: Double Entry, Diffusion, Charities, Venice, 16Th Century, Stewardship

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lusiani, Maria and Pancot, Chiara and Sangster, Alan and Vedovato, Marco, Bookkeeping, but not for Profit: a Special Form of Double Entry in a 16Th Century Venetian Charity (January 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4320347
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies