Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Norval Hawkins: Ford Accountant and Salesman Extraordinaire

Accounting Historians Journal, 49(2): 59–71.

Posted: 11 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Jan 2023

Yvette Lazdowski

Independent

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

This article investigates the life and career of Norval Hawkins (1867–1936), a successful accountant at Ford Motor Company and acclaimed author of salesmanship books, but also a convicted felon in an embezzlement scheme at Standard Oil. The early years of Ford were marked by phenomenal growth and record sales, especially after introducing the Model T in 1908. The administration of accounting and sales remained under the watchful eye of James Couzens since the company’s inception in 1903, but little has been written on the role of accountant and salesman Norval Hawkins, whose multiple contributions include a cost accounting system, branch accounting, and a unique dealership system. In addition to his accounting and sales skills, Hawkins also created a popular house publication, the Ford Times, to influence salespeople, customers, and dealers. Ultimately, his style and success irritated company founder Henry Ford, and he was abruptly ousted.Using primary archival material from The Henry Ford, Hawkins’ years at Ford from 1907-1919 describe the talents of an accountant who overcame public scandal to achieve notable success in the automotive industry.

Keywords: Accountant, Biography, Embezzlement, Ford Motor Company, Norval Hawkins, The Henry Ford

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lazdowski, Yvette and Persson, Martin Emanuel, Norval Hawkins: Ford Accountant and Salesman Extraordinaire (September 1, 2022). Accounting Historians Journal, 49(2): 59–71., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322607
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Banking, Finance, Economy & Trade History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies