Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of Ohio’s Auditors, the Enumeration of Population and the Project of Eugenics

J Bus Ethics (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-022-05279-8

Posted: 12 Jan 2023

Cameron Graham

York University - Schulich School of Business

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Vaughan S. Radcliffe

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Mitchell Stein

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

In 1856, the State of Ohio began an enumeration of its population to enumerate and identify people with disabilities. This paper examines the role of the accounting profession in this project, which supported the transatlantic eugenics movement and its genocidal attempts to eliminate disabled persons from the population. We use a theoretical approach based on Levinas to show that the self is generated through engagement with the Other, and argue that this engagement is built on a sense of responsibility to the Other (Knights and O’Leary, 2006, p. 126). We show that successive waves of legislation relied on State and County auditors along with Township clerks and assessors to conduct the mechanics of the enumeration of the population, which focused on the identification, categorization, and counting of the disabled people of the State. The financial expertise and structures of the State were engaged in the execution of this mandate, which remained in place for over a century. We consider the ramifications of this for our understanding of the role of public sector accounting in the United States over this period, which has been under-explored.

Keywords: Enumeration, Eugenics, Ohio, State Auditors, Auditing

JEL Classification: N4, N9, M4

Suggested Citation:

Graham, Cameron and Persson, Martin Emanuel and Racliffe, Vaughan S. and Stein, Mitchell, The State of Ohio’s Auditors, the Enumeration of Population and the Project of Eugenics (October 1, 2022). J Bus Ethics (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-022-05279-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323234
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies