Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
G.C. Harcourt: An Economist with Accounting Sense

Economic and Labour Relations Review, vol. 33, 2023, forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2023 Last revised: 20 Mar 2023

Mauro Boianovsky

Universidade de Brasilia

Constantinos Repapis

Institute of Management Studies, Goldsmiths, University of London; lecturer in economics

Date Written: January 31, 2023

Abstract

Geoffrey Colin Harcourt’s work on the interface between accountancy and economics is a part of his legacy that is less well known than his work on the capital controversies. This paper argues that the analytical findings of this research effort are an important and integral part of Harcourt’s overall research program. In this paper we review Harcourt’s work on the relation between economics and accounting from the time of his undergraduate thesis to 1969, the date of the publication with Robert Parker of the edited volume Readings in the Concept and Measurement of Income. This paper intends to offer insights on A) the evolution of Harcourt’s thought during this period and a survey of the significant contributions he made to research in this field during this time, and B) the legacy of his approach and findings. We argue that his ideas in this domain offer important insights in doing post-Keynesian economics in the Harcourt mould. We find that Harcourt’s insights on the issues relating to the accounting rate of profit as used by economists remains relevant to today, as well as his implicit suggestions on how to deal with the complexities of the problems that ensue both for the theorist, practical economist, businessman, and policy advisor. Harcourt’s work suggests that we should not aim to replace one monolithic way of seeing things with another, indicating that the useful definition of key concepts and tools is determined by the problem and hence by the policy question one wants to answer.

Keywords: Accounting, economic policy, post-Keynesianism, Harcourt, measurement

JEL Classification: B22, B31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Boianovsky, Mauro and Repapis, Constantinos, G.C. Harcourt: An Economist with Accounting Sense (January 31, 2023). Economic and Labour Relations Review, vol. 33, 2023, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4344106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4344106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
RANK
631,616
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies