Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stanley Surrey's Lasting Influence

86 Law and Contemporary Problems 167-186 (2023)

20 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2023 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Assaf Harpaz

University of Georgia School of Law

C. Eugene Steuerle

Urban Institute

Date Written: March 9, 2023

Abstract

Stanley Surrey is perhaps best known for his promotion of the concept of tax
expenditures—the characterization of various tax preferences as substitutes for
direct expenditures. That emphasis understates his lasting influence on the tax
policy process. An equally important and lasting achievement was establishing
and promoting the integrity and professionalism of the Treasury’s Office of Tax
Policy (OTP), while garnering the support of much of the wider tax policy
community for basing tax policy on the principles of fairness, simplicity, and
efficiency.

In this article, we focus mainly on historical developments in the concept and
use of tax expenditures both in the United States and abroad. We provide special
attention to the significant role played by tax expenditures in the movement that
led to the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which is the type of effort that Surrey
championed. We relate tax expenditures to other base-defining measures such as
economic income, consumption, and ability to pay in both development of that
Act and within the continuing tax policy debate.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Policy, Treasury, Office of Tax Policy, Expenditures, Stanley, Surrey, OTP, Tax Reform Act, History,

JEL Classification: k1, k10, k19, k20, k30, k34, k00

Suggested Citation:

Harpaz, Assaf and Steuerle, C. Eugene, Stanley Surrey's Lasting Influence (March 9, 2023). 86 Law and Contemporary Problems 167-186 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4382441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
U S Tax Policy , T Dep , Of , Treasury
Posted: 2023-06
Id
The Assistant Treasury for Tax Policy remains the highest-ranking tax professional except in the rare instances where a tax professional holds a top Treasury or White House position. 11. See generally Erwin N
Harv L Rev
This was not Surrey's first Treasury appointment. Between 1937-1947, he served as the Special Representative of the Treasury General Council at the Internal Revenue Service and served on the Shoup mission to Japan from 1949-1950
HARV. LIBR.: HOLLIS ARCHIVES , volume 329 Posted: 1984
Howard Gleckman
Remembering Don Lubick, TAX POL Posted: 2022-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
552,835
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies