Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservatism in Accounting - Part Ii: Evidence and Research Opportunities

36 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2003

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: August 21, 2003

Abstract

This paper is Part II in a two part series on conservatism in accounting. Part I examines alternative explanations for conservatism in accounting and their implications for accounting regulators (SEC and FASB). Part II summarizes the empirical evidence on the existence of conservatism, conservatism's increase over time and conservatism's alternative explanations. It also discusses opportunities for future research on conservatism.

Conservatism is defined as the differential verifiability required for recognition of profits versus losses. In its extreme form the definition incorporates the traditional conservatism adage: "anticipate no profit, but anticipate all losses." Despite criticism from many quarters, the formal evidence suggests conservatism not only exists in modern day financial reporting, it also suggests conservatism has increased in the last 30 years

The empirical literature uses a variety of conservatism measures in time-series and cross-sectional tests of contracting, shareholder litigation, taxation, and accounting regulation explanations for conservatism. The tests' results suggest the importance of all four explanations. Two non-conservatism explanations (earnings management and the abandonment option) cannot individually or jointly explain the observed systematic understatement of net assets that is the hallmark of conservatism.

Researchers should note that accounting's effects on managerial behavior play a central role in the evolution of both accounting and financial reporting. Assessing the relevance of an accounting method to financial statement users' decisions requires assessing managers' abilities to use that method to manipulate accounting numbers and commit fraud. The evidence on conservatism suggests asymmetric verifiability is critical to constraining manipulation and fraud.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, financial reporting, accounting standard-setting, contracting, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M49, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Watts, Ross L., Conservatism in Accounting - Part Ii: Evidence and Research Opportunities (August 21, 2003). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=438662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.438662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Bruce K. Billings , Mary Stanford , Richard M. Morton
Accounting Conservatism and Cost of Debt: An Empirical Test of Efficient Contracting
Pages: 36 Posted: 25 Apr 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A S Ahmed , R M Morton , T F Schaefer
Accounting conservatism and the valuation of accounting numbers: Evidence on the Feltham-Ohlson (1996) model
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 15 , p. 271 - 292 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , R L Watts
Some time series properties of accounting income
Journal of Finance , volume 27 , p. 663 - 682 Posted: 1972-06
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000-02
Crossref
Load more
37 Citations
Michael Bradbury
Discussion of Grambovas, Giner and Christodoulou
Abacus, Vol. 42, Issue 3-4, pp. 379-387, September 2006 · 9 Pages · Posted: 17 Oct 2006 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wooyoung Shin , Soonwook Hong
A Study on Accounting Conservatism of Korean Lodging Companies
Journal of Quality Assurance in Hospitality & Tourism , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 564 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Jean Raar
A basic user utility preference to reduce uncertainty: A dissent to reporting and asset measurement
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 785 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Manfred Kühnberger
Kapitalmarktorientierte Rechnungslegung
, p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,932
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43,817
RANK
1,887
37 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies