Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Philosophy of Heidegger and Accounting

14 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

This paper intends to identify philosophical underpinnings of Accounting in relation to one of most well-known and most influential philosophers in the 20th century Martin Heidegger. The paper asks general questions, why Accounting is necessary, for what purpose and why. Accounting is often described as the language of business. It reveals philosophical underpinnings, philosophical directions and main theory of accounting. A deeper understanding of the philosophical aspects of accounting should help to explain accounting ambiguity.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Philosophy of Heidegger and Accounting (March 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4389006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4389006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
RANK
719,188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Continental Philosophy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies