Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Man for His Era and for Ours: Cordell Hull, Father of the Federal Income Tax

53.1 Cumberland Law Review 41 (2022)

36 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Tracey M. Roberts

Samford University, Cumberland School of Law

Date Written: March 16, 2023

Abstract

An 1891 graduate of Cumberland School of Law, Cordell Hull served our country in countless ways. He served as captain of the Fourth Regiment of the Tennessee Volunteer Infantry in the Spanish- American War, as judge for the fifth judicial circuit of Tennessee, as a member of the Tennessee State House of Representatives, the United States House of Representatives, and the United States Senate, and as United States Secretary of State. President Franklin D. Roosevelt referred to him as the “Father of the United Nations.” Hull received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945 in honor of his work to establish that body. Hull is less well known for his work to establish another important and enduring institution—the federal income tax. In his 1948 memoir, Hull wrote that he doubted that he would be able to render public service equal to his work to establish the income tax system even if he had two lifetimes. This essay explains why Hull regarded the federal income tax as among his chief contributions. First, it outlines Hull’s personal history, his experiences with his mentor, United States Representative Benton McMillin, and Hull’s efforts to pass the Revenue Act of 1913. Second, it discusses the historical, economic, and political context that motivated Hull to introduce the tax reform that sustained the United States through two world wars and made possible widespread economic prosperity in the twentieth century. Finally, it discusses the original impetus for reform, compares the economic conditions from over 100 years ago to those prevailing today, and outlines what it would take to fulfill Hull’s vision and intentions for the federal tax system and the country in the present.

Keywords: Federal Income Tax, Tax Policy, Tariff, Excise Tax, Tax History

JEL Classification: K34, H27, N11, N12

Suggested Citation:

Roberts, Tracey, A Man for His Era and for Ours: Cordell Hull, Father of the Federal Income Tax (March 16, 2023). 53.1 Cumberland Law Review 41 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4391045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4391045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
Brownlee
, volume 72
Steven R See , Weisman
THE GREAT TAX WARS , volume 111 Posted: 2002
Id
With the aid of Congressman Benton McMillin, Hull later had the opportunity to meet President Cleveland following his second inauguration. HULL, supra note 1
See HULL, supra note 1 , p. 48 - 49
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
RANK
294,906
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies