Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitization, Perception, Cognition, and Categorization: Consequences for Accounting

19 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2023

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: March 27, 2023

Abstract

Hundreds of thousands of years ago, our perceptions developed beyond their analog origins to include digital modes. It was a key transformation that may well have distinguished genus homo from its predecessors. Since digitization necessarily discards at least some of the information contained in continuous analog magnitudes, it is not obvious that digitization would prove to be a useful improvement and promote survival and flourishing of the species. Yet, it has been a spectacular success, playing a key role in development of human mind, cognition, and civilization. We examine how digitization altered the perceptions and cognition of our environment and enabled us to go on to create a different world.

As a prerequisite, digitization predated accounting in pre-history. An immediate consequence of digitization is the way we categorize (or classify) observations to create data, confidence we place in the categories we create, and how we use those categories. Categorization is a central feature of accounting practice and regulation. Learning to categorize constitutes a large part of accounting education and training. We reflect on the properties and limitations of categorization, as well as the consequences of insufficient attention to limitations of accounting categories we create and prescribe in the form of accounting and financial regulations and rules. In the excitement about the power of digitization, we should not neglect to attend to limitations and potential blind alleys associated with digitization, which are equally important.

Keywords: Accounting, Digitization, Human Perception, Cognition, History

JEL Classification: B10, L51, M40

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Digitization, Perception, Cognition, and Categorization: Consequences for Accounting (March 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4402108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4402108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
640,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies