Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scope and Applicability of Reverse Piercing of Corporate Veil

8 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2023

Kanha Sawlani

O.P. Jindal Global University

Date Written: September 10, 2022

Abstract

Since the evolution of corporations as the major contributor to the global economy, limited liability is a fundamental principle that has been centric in legal discourse. However, reverse piercing of the corporate veil has emerged as a contentious legal doctrine challenging the traditional boundaries of limited liability.
This article delves into the historical origin and evolution of the reverse piercing of corporate veil and illustrates the distinction in its acceptance across USA, UK and India. By tracing its roots from early cases to contemporary jurisprudence, the article explores the factors that can lead to the court invoking the application of this doctrine. Furthermore, the article examines the judicial precedents which indicate the divergence in acceptance of this doctrine in the USA and India and how Indian courts have selectively invoked this doctrine in a handful of cases.

Keywords: Corporate veil, limited liability, doctrine of alter-ego

JEL Classification: K10

Suggested Citation:

Sawlani, Kanha, Scope and Applicability of Reverse Piercing of Corporate Veil (September 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4501924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4501924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
NEPC India Ltd. v , volume SEBI Posted: 2003
Sbiv
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. OA No. 766 of Posted: 2013-01-19
Section 141
Negotiable Instrument Act
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
RANK
250,867
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies