Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
E. Joe DeMaris on the Accounting Profession and its Forgotten Mission

Accounting Historians Journal, 50(1): 57-67.

Posted: 12 Jul 2023

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

“The Accounting Profession and its Mission Forgotten” is an unpublished manuscript by E. Joe DeMaris (1919–2010). It is reproduced here with an introductory note to put the author and the material in its historical context. DeMaris was one of the more prominent individuals among his generation of accounting academics, administrators, and observers of the accounting profession. The manuscript investigates the development of the accounting profession from the 17th century in Great Britain to the 20th century in the United States. The manuscript was written in 1997 and foreshadows several events of the 21st century, such as the tension arising from the cross-selling of consulting services to audit clients, the auditor capture that brought down Arthur Andersen during the Enron scandal, and the failure of “trickle-down economics” to bring about economic prosperity for the masses. Contemporary readers will find DeMaris’ manuscript most pertinent as we reflect on the 50th anniversary of the Academy of Accounting Historians and consider the role of accounting in the 21st century.

Keywords: accounting profession, American business, auditing, free market system, the industrial revolution

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel, E. Joe DeMaris on the Accounting Profession and its Forgotten Mission (July 11, 2023). Accounting Historians Journal, 50(1): 57-67., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506891
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies