Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The First Half-Century of Empirical Capital Markets Research in Accounting in Pictures

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

77 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2023 Last revised: 17 Apr 2025

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Jason J. Xiao

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Date Written: April 17, 2025

Abstract

Seminal papers by Ball and Brown (1968) and Beaver (1968) spawned a vast literature on the role of accounting numbers in capital markets. This literature, often referred to as capital markets research in accounting (CMRA), is now more than a half-century old. In light of numerous changes to the economic and financial reporting environments over this time, we estimate CMRA’s major relations using a comprehensive sample period. We illustrate each relation using plots, allowing us to efficiently present CMRA’s first half-century consistent with the adage “a picture is worth a thousand words.” The aims of our study are to document the extent of time-series variation in CMRA’s major relations and to provide evidence on market-level determinants of that variation. In doing so, our study provides a natural starting point for future research designed to develop and test additional causal explanations for time-series variation in the properties of CMRA’s major relations.

Keywords: capital markets, association studies, event studies, time-series analysis, earnings, stock returns, earnings-return relation, information content, earnings announcements, post-earnings announcement drift, accruals, cash flows, earnings response coefficients, analysts' earnings forecasts, accounting conservatism, earnings' asymmetric timeliness, value relevance, earnings timeliness, management forecasts

JEL Classification: E32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kothari, S.P. and Schonberger, Bryce and Wasley, Charles E. and Xiao, Jason J., The First Half-Century of Empirical Capital Markets Research in Accounting in Pictures (April 17, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4550652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4550652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How Much New Information Is There In Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in Value Relevance of Accounting Information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,289
RANK
62,378
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies