Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gregory v. Helvering: A Red Herring that Shaped Tax Jurisprudence

21 Berkeley Bus. L. J. 171 (2024)

32 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023 Last revised: 12 Apr 2024

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: February 7, 2023

Abstract

The Supreme Court’s decision in Gregory (affirming Learned Hand’s opinion in the Second Circuit) is one of the most influential decisions in the field of taxation. It is the source of a number of significant doctrines, including business purpose, economic substance, substance over form, and sham transactions. Although the literature and the case law continue to disagree about the exact ratio decidendi of Gregory, there is one foundational fact that is undisputed. From those directly involved in the proceedings (including the taxpayer’s own counsel) to the generations of commentators and judges over the generations, everyone who has looked at the case agrees that Mrs. Gregory exploited the reorganization provisions of the relevant Revenue Act for the purpose of reducing her tax liability. It is her use, misuse, or abuse – depending upon one’s perspective – of those provisions that has been the focal point of debate for almost a century. Today, there is a near unanimous consensus that her exploitation of the reorganization provisions was abusive and that the courts correctly denied her the benefits she sought.
This Article argues that that the decision in Gregory, along with most of the subsequent discourse, derives from a basic misunderstanding of Mrs. Gregory’s tax planning maneuver. A close examination shows that the corporate reorganization provisions, which have been the focus of the discourse for almost a century, conferred no tax benefit. Rather they were a red herring, successfully diverting attention from the provisions that actually provided the benefits. Had the courts fathomed the inner workings of Mrs. Gregory’s tax plan, the result might have been much different, with significant implications for the subsequent development of tax law.

Keywords: tax, tax avoidance, Gregory, corporate tax, liquidations, distributions

JEL Classification: K34, G34, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, Gregory v. Helvering: A Red Herring that Shaped Tax Jurisprudence (February 7, 2023). 21 Berkeley Bus. L. J. 171 (2024) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4575780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
RANK
228,448
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies