Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Historical Origins and Current Prospects of the Multilateral Tax Convention

In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 379-411

Posted: 12 Oct 2023

Reuven Avi-Yonah

Independent

Eran Lempert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

This article has three aims. First, it surveys the pre-BEPS efforts to create a multilateral tax convention (MTC) from the 19th century onward, and explains why these efforts have failed, leading to an international tax regime dominated by unilateralism and bilateralism. Second, it contrasts the success of multilateralism in investment and trade law. Third, it examines the BEPS era efforts to create an MTC and suggests that, while there has been more convergence of the tax laws of countries, a fundamental divergence of interests persists that will likely doom any such efforts to failure. The article concludes that, at this time, tax law still remains unsuitable to multilateralism, in contrast to investment and trade law, mainly due to the monetary impact.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: MLI, multilateral tax treaty, BEPS Project (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), history of taxation, double taxation, MFN, investment law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven and Lempert, Eran, The Historical Origins and Current Prospects of the Multilateral Tax Convention (July 10, 2023). In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 379-411, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4599745
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies