Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The American Institute of Accountants’ Aptitude Testing Experiment in the 1940s: An Initiative to Increase the Supply of Able Accountants

Accounting History, https://doi.org/10.1177/10323732231204397

Posted: 17 Oct 2023

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: October 16, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the American Institute of Accountants’ development of aptitude testing in the 1940s, drawing on Abbott (1988) as a theoretical framework. The Institute began to emphasize the importance of the CPA designation among its members in the 1930s. Whereas this change in emphasis made public accounting more prestigious as a professional pursuit, the increased barriers to entry and the onset of WW2 led to a shortage of qualified individuals entering the profession. The Institute established a committee addressing this shortage through the development of aptitude tests administered to undergraduate students. Based on previously unexamined empirical evidence from the University of Illinois Archives, this study is the first to investigate this historical episode and, in so doing, contribute to our understanding of the development of the American accounting profession, the curious case of testing for aptitude in accounting, and the prevailing separation between the profession and universities in the training of students who seek to enter public accounting.

Keywords: accounting examination, American Institute of Accountants, aptitude testing, Committee on Selection of Personnel, sociology of professions, system of professions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Persson, Martin Emanuel, The American Institute of Accountants’ Aptitude Testing Experiment in the 1940s: An Initiative to Increase the Supply of Able Accountants (October 16, 2023). Accounting History, https://doi.org/10.1177/10323732231204397, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4604066
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
171
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Sociology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies