Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overcoming the Principal-Agent Problem: Tax Law and Policy in Communist-ruled China, 1931-1952

31 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023

Ming-hsi Chu

Northwestern University - Department of History

Date Written: November 27, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the laws and policies that supported the rapid fiscal success of the People's Republic of China (PRC) in the early 1950s. It argues that the PRC overcame severe principal-agent problems in tax collection by integrating preexisting local fiscal infrastructures into its centralized bureaucracy and implementing a uniform accounting system. Tracing the history of the Chinese Communist Party's (CCP) tax policies from its early soviet regime in 1931 to the nationwide tax reform around 1950, the paper shows how the CCP gradually regulated, controlled, and replaced native agents like tax farmers and corrupt officials with grassroots cadres. It also analyzes how mass movements like "speaking bitterness" meetings enhanced fiscal capacity by incentivizing peasants to reveal economic information. Additionally, the CCP took a top-down approach to construct standardized, auditable accounting systems across government agencies and businesses. The combination of centralized tax laws built on local foundations, together with unified accounting standards, proved critical for the PRC's rapid fiscal success of increasing tax revenue collection three-fold within three years. This case sheds light on how an authoritarian state with limited resources can quickly modernize its tax administration system.

Keywords: fiscal capacity, agency problem in tax collection, mass movement

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Ming-hsi, Overcoming the Principal-Agent Problem: Tax Law and Policy in Communist-ruled China, 1931-1952 (November 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4645628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4645628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
RANK
834,175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies