Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalism and the Return on Capital Employed. Some Further Evidence

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

John Richard Edwards

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School, Accounting and Business History Research Group

Date Written: January 9, 2024

Abstract

Return on capital employed is recognised both as a symbol of capitalism and as a calculation designed to help achieve the more effective deployment of available resources. Dating the emergence of this ‘accounting signature’ has been the subject of vigorous debate. Rob Bryer believes that calculation of the return on capital employed played a meaningful role in business life from the eighteenth century onwards whereas Steven Toms (2006, p. 206) finds scant evidence of the existence of this emblem of a capitalist mentality until ‘much later’. This paper seeks to contribute to this debate based on the contents of the Spencer Stanhope archive, Eighteenth Century Collections Online and UK Parliamentary Papers.

Keywords: Accounting and economic development, Accounting history, Capitalism, Profit, Return on capital employed

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, John Richard, Capitalism and the Return on Capital Employed. Some Further Evidence (January 9, 2024). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4688933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Mr Spencer's Stock in the Duke of Norfolk's Works and Roach Abbey Forge. BA SpSt 60459. Bank Furnace Account
BA SpSt 60457
Memorandum of the Partnership in the Duke of Norfolk's Works on
BA SpSt 60478 Posted: 1727-06-24
For , Edwards
Parliamentary Papers PP 1720. Member of the House of Commons. Some seasonable considerations for those who are desirous, by subscription, or purchase , p. 559 - 561 Posted: 2009
Ninth report from the select committee, appointed to take into consideration the state of the administration of justice in the provinces of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa
PP 1783 , volume 140
Load more
1 Citations
Rob Bryer
Debating Accounting and Transitions to Capitalism: A Reply to Critics of Rob Bryer's Marxist Interpretation
YCPAC-D-24-00064 · 35 Pages · Posted: 2 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
RANK
753,736
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies