Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family, Partnerships and Companies

Forthcoming, Family, Partnerships and Companies: From Assur to Amsterdam to be published in 2024 by Juris

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4690369

35 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024 Last revised: 25 Jan 2024

Barry E. Hawk

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: January 10, 2024

Abstract

This chapter summarizes the business organizations discussed in each of our nine pre-industrial societies.1 The vast majority of businesses before the Industrial Revolution were operated by family or household members without any formal legal organization. Section I. The most common legal business organization before the Industrial Revolution was the basic partnership. Section II. A few societies developed open partnerships and more complex business organizations. Section III. The chapter ends with the conclusion that economic demand for capital and risk sharing was the primary driver of business organizations. Section IV.

Keywords: history of corporate law, history of company law, business organizations, partnerships, family firms, Assyria, Ancient Rome, Ancient China, Ancient Egypt, Athens, Ancient India, Islamic partnerships, Renaissance Europe

JEL Classification: D13, G30, K22, N20

Suggested Citation:

Hawk, Barry E., Family, Partnerships and Companies (January 10, 2024). Forthcoming, Family, Partnerships and Companies: From Assur to Amsterdam to be published in 2024 by Juris, Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4690369, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
317,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies