Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploitation, Exchange, and Discontent: New England Whalers and New Zealand’s First Tax Laws

61 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Jonathan M. Barrett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

The New England fleet dominated the world’s whaling industry in the first half of the nineteenth century. In the 1830s, Kororāreka (Russell) in New Zealand’s Bay of Islands, was a major whaling port, and earned the soubriquet “the hellhole of the Pacific”.
Some Māori chiefs exacted tolls from visiting ships, typically payable in muskets or tobacco.
After New Zealand became a British colony in 1840, the cash-strapped government saw the whalers and traders in the Bay of Islands as ripe targets for customs duties. Laws were expeditiously ordained but the plan did not work well, and many American ships departed. Furthermore, the acting US consuls coached an ambitious young chief, Hōne Heke, on America’s own rebellion against British colonial taxation.
Heke adopted the American ensign in a rebellion against the Crown. In response, Governor FitzRoy abolished the tariff, and, in its place, instituted an innovative property and income tax. That novel tax proved a failure, and customs duties were re-enacted in 1845.
This article considers the possibility that New England whalers exercised significant influence over the structure of New Zealand’s first tax legislation.

Keywords: tax, whalers, New England, Maori

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Barrett, Jonathan M., Exploitation, Exchange, and Discontent: New England Whalers and New Zealand’s First Tax Laws (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4695657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4695657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
£6
173 The Union flag stood in for Crown hegemony and loss of chiefly powers, whereas the US ensign represented independence. It is a matter of speculation whether Heke would have rebelled without American urging. It is clear he drew a connection between the tax-driven American Revolution and the possibility of a Māori war of independence -"the lesson was not forgotten; he burned to do likewise
174 Heke and his warriors took axes to the flagpole in Russell first in July 1844, and the three more times in January and March 1845 , p. 222 - 223
Heke Pokai, Hone
The Encyclopedia of New Zealand Posted: 1966
T Robert , Howard Schatz , Lavine
Waving the Flag: National Symbolism, Social Identity, and Political Engagement
Political Psychology , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 20 Posted: 2007
175 Smith and Mayhew reportedly supplied Heke with "arms and ammunition, and then quitted the country aboard the American whaleship Edward Carey with some of the plunder
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
504
RANK
841,621
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies