Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inquiry Into Cistercian Wealth Contribution – Agile Principles in the Cistercian Order

24 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2024 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 29, 2024

Abstract

We investigate, if agile principles contributed to Cistercian wealth contribution. The Cistercian monastery Order is applied as a historical case study. The assumption is taken that organizational concepts of agility can be traced back historically and were applied much earlier in the European medieval history. While management control system intends to align individual activities with organization goals, under agile philosophy self-governing and autonomous teams fulfill objectives set by the organization instead of micro-management. Under agile philosophy enabling leadership concepts are pursued, as teams are expected to self-govern and decide on solutioning without direct management control, which requires agile skilled employees and a commitment to co-work for a mutual goal. To be able to link agile principles to historic Cistercian movement, historic scripts are considered: “Carta caritatis”, a guide relation between various houses of the Cistercian order and the foundation of the General Chapter, the “Exordium Magnum Cisterciense” a book of instruction and “Exordium Parvum”, a 12th century Cistercian document that includes the early history of Cîteaux, incorporating official letters and documents with narrative. This article has implications for practitioners and researchers on the transformation of agile organizations as well as for historians studying the wealth of Cistercians.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Inquiry Into Cistercian Wealth Contribution – Agile Principles in the Cistercian Order (January 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4709071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4709071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Andersen References , T B Bentzen , J S Dalgaard , C J Sharp , P R Baskerville-Morley , R F
Religious orders and growth through cultural change in pre-industrial England. Univ. of Copenhagen Dept. of Economics discussion paper
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 389 - 391 Posted: 2005
K Beck , M Beedle , A Van Bennekum , A Cockburn , W Cunningham , M Fowler , J Grenning , J Highsmith , A Hunt , R Jeffries
Manifesto for agile software development Posted: 2001
D Beerbaum
Applying Agile Methodology to regulatory compliance projects in the financial industry: A case study research
Journal of Applied Research in the Digital Economy (JADE), Special Issue , volume 2 Posted: 2019
D N Bell
From Molesme to Citeaux: The earliest" cistercian"" spirituality
Cistercian Studies Quarterly , volume 34 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Sociology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies