Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historical Development of Real Property Tax Regulation in the Territory of Slovakia in the Period of 1918–2005

Historicky casopis 5/2023, pp. 895-930, https://doi.org/10.31577/histcaso.2023.71.5.7

Posted: 1 May 2024

Anna Vartašova

University of Pavol Jozef Šafárik in Kosice

Karolína Červená

Pavol Jozef Šafárik University in Košice; Technical University in Košice (TUKE)

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

The collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and the establishment of the independent Czechoslovak state (1918) meant not only a geopolitical change for the territory of Slovakia, but also caused economic changes, which were reflected in the subsequent gradual changes in the legislation in force in the territory of the newly established state. One of the areas that have so far been little explored in detail and comprehensively in a historical context is the area related to the application of real property tax legislation in the territory of Slovakia. After the establishment of Czechoslovakia, the original Austro-Hungarian legal system of real property taxation was adopted in this area, which was subsequently only partially amended until the major reform of direct taxes in 1927. The system thus adopted lasted in principle until the period after the end of World War II, followed by a significant political and economic change, which triggered a fundamental revision of the legal system (including real property taxation) after 1948, but especially after 1952. The established system of socialist conception of taxation was gradually transformed only after 1989.
In this study the authors deal with the historical legal development of real property taxation in the period 1918–2005 in the territory of Slovakia in the geopolitical and economic historical context. Using standard scientific methods and available historical sources, the aim of the authors was to
identify approaches to the concept of real property taxation in particular historical periods with reflection on legislation then in force. The authors have identified that real property tax legislation in the territory of Slovakia has historically been gradually simplified (unification and elimination
of multiplication of tax obligations), concluding that the fundamental changes in the legislation were triggered by a change in the concept of taxation, which was historically linked to the political economic system applied in a particular historical period.

Keywords: Czechoslovak Republic; World War II; Socialist period; Territory of Slovakia; Real property taxation; Legislation;

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Vartašova, Anna and Červená, Karolína, Historical Development of Real Property Tax Regulation in the Territory of Slovakia in the Period of 1918–2005 ( 2023). Historicky casopis 5/2023, pp. 895-930, https://doi.org/10.31577/histcaso.2023.71.5.7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4773776
 Not Available for Download
104 References
Rašín See
Finanční a hospodářská politika československá do konce roku 1921 , p. 135 - 139 Posted: 1921
Mičko
Hospodárska situácia Slovenska v rokoch 1918-1945 Posted: 2013
Radvan
Czech part, the former Austrian legislation was kept in force, and in Slovakia the Hungarian one, both of which differed. ROMÁNOVÁ. Adequacy of Current System of Property Taxation in the Slovak Republic
Real Property Taxes and Property Markets in CEE Countries and Central Asia Posted: 2021
Tax legislation was unsystematic, inconsistent, and often contradictory; a large part of the laws did not even take the form of acts, but only decrees or official instructions. FUNK. Základní zákon berní
Obzor národohospodářský , volume XXVIII Posted: 1923
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Property, Land Use & Real Estate Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies