Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debating Accounting and Transitions to Capitalism: A Reply to Critics of Rob Bryer's Marxist Interpretation

35 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Rob Bryer

University of Warwick

Abstract

American and British accounting histories support Marx’s theory of transitions to capitalism, Rob Bryer has argued, and some historians agree that a shift from cash-surplus accounting to profit-and-loss accounts and balance sheets, and return-on-capital calculations are evidence of transition, but most avoid engaging with his Marxist interpretation.  Ideological or intellectual hostility are possible barriers, but importantly, the paper hypothesises, many accept Toms’ (2010) critique of Bryer’s interpretation and evidence of Britain’s transition.  Because they illustrate common misunderstandings, which left unchallenged could hinder accounting history’s development as a “science”, it replies to Toms’ criticisms, and to Fleischman, Oldroyd and Tyson’s critique of Bryer’s history of America’s transition (Tyson et al 2013, Fleischman et al 2013, Oldroyd et al 2015), that echoes Toms’.  It first rebuts Toms’ criticism of Bryer’s Marxism, questions Toms’ interpretation of British history, and after re-examining the evidence concludes it supports Bryer’s interpretation.  Second, it rebuts Fleischman, Oldroyd and Tyson’s criticisms of Bryer’s “model”, evidence, and Marxism, and rejects their atheoretical historiography.  To assess accounting history’s scientific promise, it concludes, requires taking Marx seriously.

Keywords: accounting history, Marx's theory of history, Marx's theory of value, transitions to capitalism

Suggested Citation:

Bryer, Rob, Debating Accounting and Transitions to Capitalism: A Reply to Critics of Rob Bryer's Marxist Interpretation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4782135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A J Arnold , S Mccartney
The transition to financial capitalism and its implications for financial reporting: evidence from the English canal companies
Accounting Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 8 , p. 1185 - 1209 Posted: 2008
V Baladouni
Financial reporting in the early years of the East India Company
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 13 , p. 19 - 30 Posted: 1986
R A Bryer
The late nineteenth century revolution in financial reporting: accounting for the rise of investor or managerial capitalism?
Accounting, Organizations & Society , volume 18 , issue 7/8 , p. 649 - 690 Posted: 1993
R A Bryer
Double-entry bookkeeping and the birth of capitalism: accounting for the commercial revolution in Northern Italy
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 140 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
RANK
713,739
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies