Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Intangibles: A Literature Review

Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 19, pp. 102-130

Posted: 21 Jan 2004

Leandro Canibano

Autonomous University of Barcelona

Manuel Garcia-Ayuso

University of Seville

Paloma Sánchez

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Abstract

The purpose of Financial Accounting is to provide users of financial statements with information that is useful for efficient decision making. According to the FASB [1978, par. 34], financial reporting should provide information that is useful to present and potential investors and creditors and other users in making rational investment, credit, and similar decisions. Consequently, any event that is likely to affect a firm's current financial position or its future performance should be reported in its annual accounts. In order to provide the users of financial statements with relevant information for investment and credit decision making, standard setting bodies should develop guidelines for the identification of intangible elements, a set of criteria for their valuation and adequate standards for financial reporting. This paper intends to provide a starting point for that endeavor by reviewing the literature published to date in three areas: (i) the economic nature, definition and classification of intangibles, (ii) the relevance of intangibles for investment and lending decisions, and (iii) the ways in which the current accounting model may be modified in order to provide useful information on the determinants of the firms' financial position in their financial statements.

Keywords: Intangibles, Standard Setting, Literature Review

JEL Classification: M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Canibano, Leandro and Garcia-Ayuso, Manuel and Sánchez, Paloma, Accounting for Intangibles: A Literature Review. Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 19, pp. 102-130, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=479701
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies