Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History and Current Issues of the Japanese Tax Code

12 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Dale Satre

Stanford University

Date Written: June 7, 2023

Abstract

Japan’s modern tax policies have remarkably evolved from being messy and ineffective in
its postwar economy to financing one of the economic miracles of the latter twentieth century.
Among different observers, it is simultaneously a socialist conspiracy redistributing wealth, a
regressive tax code that concentrates wealth at the top, a component of Japan’s economic
miracle, and a prime culprit in its economic stagnation. Regardless of what camp(s) one may fall
in, the tax code has improved from a barely enforceable and unpopular system to an effective
tool of public finance and economic incentives. This paper examines the postwar reformation of
the Japanese tax code based on the American reconstruction campaign in Japan. It also
examines other select topics of the tax code such as the current tax code and tax morale, the tax
code’s relationship with the keiretsu industrial conglomerates, changes in Japan’s multinational
corporate tax strategy, and its climate tax. Each subject has implications for Japanese corporate
culture and thus Japanese society as a whole, as how economic activity is translated into public
investment depends on the tax code.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, policy, Japan, Japanese economy, keiretsu

JEL Classification: H21, H2, H21, H24, N13, O14, P14

Suggested Citation:

Satre, Dale, History and Current Issues of the Japanese Tax Code (June 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4798596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4798596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Milestones: 1945-1952 -Office of the Historian Posted: 2017
Sudelson
, volume 104
Report on Japanese Taxation by the Shoup Mission, Chapter 1 Posted: 1949
M Bronfenbrenner
The Japanese Value Added Sales Tax
National Tax Journal , volume 3 , issue 4 Posted: 1950-12-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
RANK
880,951
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies