Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax after the American War of Independence: A Consideration of The Federalist and The Anti-Federalist Papers

Tilburg Law School Research Paper Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Jane Frecknall Hughes

Nottingham University Business School

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

The American War of Independence ended formally with the Versailles peace treaty of 1783 – leaving 13 independent states needing a constitution. Tax played a key role in the lead-up to and during the War and in subsequent years, notably in the debate about the newly-developed Constitution. That debate is captured in The Federalist Papers and The Anti-Federalist Papers.
The Federalist Papers comprise articles written by Founding Fathers James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and John Jay, aimed at promoting acceptance of the new Constitution, and explaining and justifying the political principles it embodied. Key – and highly controversial – issues were the separation of powers between the judiciary, the legislature and the executive, and the concept of federalism. Numbers 30–36 of The Federalist Papers, written by Hamilton, concern taxation. Although not opposed to individual state taxation, Hamilton aimed to persuade readers that federal taxation was required to provide public necessities. Particularly contentious was the relationship between state tax law and any federal imposition and their respective standing.
The views of the Federalists were countered by The Anti-Federalist Papers. The Anti-Federalists opposed ratification of the Constitution, though they too favoured federalism: they wanted a ‘small republic’ (a weak central government), as opposed to a ‘big republic’, fearing that a national government would be too powerful and threaten individual liberties and state government. The Anti-Federalist Papers are liberally peppered with detailed arguments about taxation, with numbers 30–36 being devoted entirely to tax. Of concern was the federal power to tax, which they wanted limited to taxing overseas imports.
In this paper, we will examine the background to The Federalist and Anti-Federalist Papers in terms of the philosophical ideas (e.g. Locke, Hume, Montesquieu, Paine, Rousseau) about tax leading to the War, the taxes imposed during and after the War and influences on tax policy-making. Both the Federalists and the Anti-Federalists, cited the great political philosophers or showed their influence in their support or otherwise for the taxing powers incorporated into the Constitution in regard to the rule of law, consent and custom.

Keywords: American War of Independence, American Constitution, taxation, Founding Fathers James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and John Jay Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Paine, the Federalist Papers and Anti-Federalist Papers, taxation, tax justice, rule of law, consent, custom, separation of power

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans and Hughes, Jane Frecknall, Tax after the American War of Independence: A Consideration of The Federalist and The Anti-Federalist Papers (April 17, 2024). Tilburg Law School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4798365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4798365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Bailyn
For an exhaustive assessment of Renaissance, medieval, and ancient political philosophy and American religious writings of the eighteenth century, see E Sandoz, A Government of Laws
Religion and the American Founding , volume 54 Posted: 1990
Stewart , ' Nature , God
who deals with the influence of the writings of Spinoza, Lucretius, and other great philosophers; CJ Richard, The Founders and the Classics: Greece, Rome, and the American Enlightenment Posted: 1994
Dj Bederman
The Classical Foundations of the American Constitution Prevailing Wisdom Posted: 2008
Asadi
En Route to the US Constitution: Founding Fathers and Lockean Philosophy
Historia Constitucional: Revista Electrónica de Historia Constitucional , volume 407 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,834
RANK
294,906
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies