Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Literature Review of Three Applicable Theories to Taxation; the Ability to Pay Theory, the Benefit Theory and the Neutrality Theory

8 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Boluwatife Seriah

Adeleke University, Ede

Date Written: April 19, 2024

Abstract

Taxation, as defined by Black's Law Dictionary, is a governmental charge aimed at yielding public revenue from individuals, entities, transactions, or property. Its origins trace back to ancient civilizations such as Ancient Greece and Rome, evolving from simple financial obligations to complex systems intertwined with modern state functions and economies. This study aims to explore three theories shaping tax policies: the Ability to Pay Theory, the Benefit Theory, and the Neutrality Theory. By examining the perspectives of various economists and scholars, the study seeks also to understand the principles underlying these theories and their practical implications in tax policy formulation. Through a doctrinal analysis of historical and contemporary perspectives on taxation, this study examines the principles and applications of the three theories having employed the use of Secondary sources like law journals and primary sources like decided cases. It synthesizes insights from prominent economists and scholars to elucidate the key concepts and considerations shaping tax policy discussions. The Ability to Pay Theory advocates proportionate taxation based on financial capability, with those possessing greater resources shouldering a heavier tax burden. Meanwhile, the Benefit Theory ties taxes to received government benefits, revealing effectiveness in specific cases but posing challenges in quantifying benefits for broader services, while the Neutrality Theory prioritizes averting economic distortions in tax policy to ensure impartiality and efficiency. While each theory offers valuable insights into tax policy, discrepancies exist in defining criteria and addressing practical challenges. Further clarity is needed in determining metrics for assessing ability to pay, quantifying individual benefits, and balancing neutrality with equity and justice in tax policy formulation.

Keywords: Keywords: Ability to pay theory, Benefit theory, Neutrality theory, Taxation, Tax policy.

Suggested Citation:

Seriah, Boluwatife, A Literature Review of Three Applicable Theories to Taxation; the Ability to Pay Theory, the Benefit Theory and the Neutrality Theory (April 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4800892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4800892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Jon Neill
The Benefit and Sacrifice Principles of Taxation: A Synthesis
JSTOR , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 2000-03
A Rahman
Ability to Pay and Benefits Received Principle of Taxation Posted: 2023-10-27
I Lindsay
Benefits Theories of Tax Fairness' (Ssrn Posted: 2019-09-19
& Taylor Mcbean , V Co , R William , Chandler
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,052
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,298
RANK
17,846
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies