Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

Accounting Review, Vol. 80, No. 1, 2005

30 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2004 Last revised: 22 Feb 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Editors exhort authors to circulate and present their working papers to colleagues before submitting them to journals (Zimmerman 1989; Green et al. 2002). Authors heeding such advice are said to increase the likelihood of getting their work published and making their research, once published, more influential (Zimmerman1989). While evidence regarding these matters is of keen importance to authors, editors and administrators, no research exists showing that circulating and presenting manuscripts increases their probability of being accepted in accounting journals or, when published, their influence on stimulating other research. I present such evidence by perusing acknowledgments in premier accounting journals.

I examine the relation between circulating and presenting manuscripts and the probability of acceptance by relating acknowledgments of 305 papers submitted to The Accounting Review during June 2002-May 2003 to the editor's reject versus revise and resubmit decision. I examine the relation between circulating and presenting manuscripts and an article's influence by relating the acknowledgments in 256 articles published in The Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting Research, and Journal of Accounting and Economics to citations to these articles.

My two analyses of acknowledgments to institutions, conferences, and individuals yield similar results. I find that papers presented at more workshops are more likely to be invited back to The Accounting Review, and that papers published in The Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting and Economics, or Journal of Accounting Research generate more citations if they were presented previously at more workshops.

Keywords: Acknowledgements, Publication Success, Article Influence

JEL Classification: M4, G00, M00, A00

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D., The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature. Accounting Review, Vol. 80, No. 1, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=480190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.480190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings: International evidence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000-02
A Ballas , V Theoharakis
Exploring diversity in accounting through faculty journal perceptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L D Brown , J C Gardner
Using citation analysis to assess the impact of journals and articles on contemporary accounting research (CAR)
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 84 - 109 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A temporal analysis of earnings surprises: Profits versus losses
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , p. 291 - 307 Posted: 2001-09
Crossref
Load more
15 Citations
Thomas Ahrens , Christopher S. Chapman
Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory
34 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2005 · Downloads: 1,081
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Edward P. Swanson , Christopher J. Wolfe , Asghar Zardkoohi
Concentration in Publishing at Top-Tier Business Journals: Evidence and Potential Explanations
40 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2005 · Downloads: 1,263
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bruno S. Frey , Eric W. K. Tsang
The As-Is Journal Review Process: Let Authors Own Their Ideas
IEW Working Paper No. 280 · 24 Pages · Posted: 27 Apr 2006 · Downloads: 235
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bradley Pomeroy , Daniel B. Thornton
Meta-Analysis and the Accounting Literature: The Case of Audit Committee Independence and Financial Reporting Quality
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 38 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2007 · Downloads: 1,413
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,105
RANK
147,906
15 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Rethinking the Influence of Agency Theory in the Accounting Academy

By Jeffrey R. Cohen and Lori Holder-webb

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies