Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gordon Peter Wilson (1946-2020): Teacher, Mentor, Scholar, and Friend

Accounting Horizons, 1-11, 2024, https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2024-037.

Posted: 21 May 2024

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: May 8, 2024

Abstract

G. Peter Wilson (1946-2020), most recently on the Carroll School of Management faculty at Boston College, was a consummate academic and leader. He profoundly influenced the accounting research literature and the art and science of accounting instruction. He also advanced the accounting academy as a whole through his various leadership roles at the American Accounting Association. This memorial article documents Professor Wilson’s early upbringing, academic career, professional activities, and achievements. The overarching themes are love and impact. Professor Wilson loved life, loved his work, and above all loved his family, friends, students, and colleagues. As a result, he profoundly impacted each aspect of the academy—research, teaching, and service. Indeed, his impact continues through the undergraduate and master students he inspired and equipped, the doctoral students he mentored at various universities and consortia, the colleagues he collaborated with, and the many who continue to learn from his markets-based and education-related innovations and inspirations. This article sets forth the most significant of these impacts with the goal of preserving the past and inspiring future generations.

Keywords: G. Peter Wilson, American Accounting Association, Biography, Boston College, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, Stanford University, Carnegie Mellon University

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Moehrle, Stephen R. and Persson, Martin Emanuel, Gordon Peter Wilson (1946-2020): Teacher, Mentor, Scholar, and Friend (May 8, 2024). Accounting Horizons, 1-11, 2024, https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2024-037., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4821563
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
169
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies