Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“American Bookkeeping” in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries Which Was Not American

14 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Sebastian Hoffmann

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: April 5, 2024

Abstract

This paper conducts a study of the circumstances surrounding an invention by Edmond Degrange père in 1804 which was said to be “American.” Degrange sought to simplify double-entry bookkeeping by combining the journal and ledger on a single page. Based on a review of the curious follow-on literature, first in Belgium and then in Germany, which labeled this invention as “American,” even though no American had anything to do with it and it was unknown in America, we speculate why a French invention was labeled as “American.”

Keywords: double-entry bookkeeping, bookkeeping history, accounting history, Edmond Degrange, American inventiveness

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A. and Hoffmann, Sebastian, “American Bookkeeping” in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries Which Was Not American (April 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4841846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4841846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Column headings (from left to right
Journal beginning on 1 st Vendémiaire Year XI., Totals (Journal), Merchandise Account, Cash Account, Securities Receivable Account, Securities Payable Account, Profit and Loss Account, Diverse Accounts, Totals (Ledger)
R Baum
Einfache, doppelte und amerikanische Buchführung. 23rd ed. Berlin: Verlagsanstalt "Soll und Haben Posted: 1824
H C Bentley , R S Leonard
Bibliography of Works on Accounting by American Authors , volume I Posted: 1934
K Bes
Bijdragen tot de geschiedenis en de theorie van het boekhouden Posted: 1908
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies