Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Iraq Free Market Economy and Accounting

Posted: 6 Apr 2004

Fouad K. Alnajjar

Baker College Center for Graduate Studies

Date Written: January 12, 2004

Abstract

Little has been written about accounting in Iraq. This article attempts to fill this gap by investigating the development and trends of accounting in this country over several decades. Major factors that influence and shape the accounting practice in Iraq are discussed first. These include political and economic systems, organization structure, tax and company laws, accounting profession, early American and British influence and the later influence of the former Soviet Union through Egypt. Iraq's accounting practices are then discussed with some details about the introduction of several sectoral uniform accounting plans which led to the eventual launching of a national uniform accounting plan at the beginning of the 1980s. This latest step was to help the central government of Saddam Hussein to control the economy. Now Saddam's regime is removed, Iraq is trying to return to a market based economy it once had. Uniform accounting is becoming irrelevant and a new accounting approach is needed. The question that needs to be addressed is which accounting system is best suited for use in new Iraq. International accounting standards may be considered as a good option.

Keywords: Accounting, Iraq

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Alnajjar, Fouad K., New Iraq Free Market Economy and Accounting (January 12, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=487642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.487642
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,754
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies