Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Key Policy Reforms for Carbon Credits and Climate Finance in the Congo Basin

19 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: July 23, 2024

Abstract

The Congo Basin forests in central Africa are the world's second-largest tropical rainforests. These incredibly diverse and precious ecosystems are home to endemic flora and fauna, providing vital support to approximately 75 million people who live within and around the Basin. However, the future of these pristine forests is at stake, threatened by many factors, including population growth, rampant deforestation, and ongoing degradation. We must address these mounting challenges head-on. To combat these threats, the international community has recognized the importance of reducing deforestation and forest degradation emissions. This approach, Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation Plus (REDD+), holds significant promise in the fight against climate change. This innovative strategy is primarily financed through carbon markets, wherein carbon credits are utilized to offset emissions globally. As the global economy strives to reduce emissions, an increasing emphasis is being placed on carbon and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation measures. Carbon credit investments serve as an effective mechanism to balance emissions, with investments being made in various regions worldwide. Our paramount objective is to delve deeper into the range of policies that can facilitate the expansion of carbon credit markets and climate finance opportunities, specifically within the Congo Basin countries. By thoroughly exploring and contributing to understanding these markets and opportunities, we hope to unlock their full potential in the context of the Congo Basin. This concerted effort will mitigate the adverse effects of deforestation and forest degradation and bolster sustainable development and conservation initiatives. Working collaboratively, we can forge a more resilient and environmentally sustainable future for the Congo Basin and its invaluable communities. (Seo & Seo2021)(Atyi, 2021)(Shapiro et al.2021)(Reiche et al.2021)

The purpose of these extensive and thorough explorations is to identify meticulously and meticulously suggest new and exceptional prime areas for policy reforms in the vast and magnificent Congo Basin as far as carbon credits and climate finance are undeniably concerned, both within the borders of this superb Basin and in the surrounding areas, all while carefully and diligently operating within and around the framework of the broader and more encompassing "Post-Paris Agreement" elements. After a careful and comprehensive analysis, in our well-founded and highly regarded opinion, we firmly believe that the implementation of the following undoubtedly groundbreaking and groundbreaking policy reforms will undeniably and significantly augment and magnify the "instability" of the magnificent and awe-inspiring Congo Basin for carbon investments that go far beyond the confines of the forest sector. These extraordinary and unparalleled policy reforms include harnessing and harvesting the immense benefits and advantages that arise from conscientiously and honourably avoiding the irrevocable conversion of the primary forests of the Congo Basin into unyielding and unproductive land. Furthermore, safeguarding and defending all the immensely significant and noteworthy co-benefits this unparalleled and extraordinary basin offers is paramount. However, it is essential to acknowledge and address the existing policy limitations, which encompass the boundaries of the forest estate and the restrictions on what can be effectively and tangibly achieved outside the confines of this remarkable and unparalleled forested region. (König et al., 2020)(Songwe et al.2022)(Moolla)

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Exploring Key Policy Reforms for Carbon Credits and Climate Finance in the Congo Basin (July 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902693 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S N Seo , S N Seo
Giving forests: A tale of Amazon rainforests and Congo River forests
Climate Change and Economics: Engaging with Future Generations with Action Plans , p. 43 - 61 Posted: 2021
R E Atyi
State of the Congo Basin Forests in 2021: Overall conclusions Posted: 2021
A C Shapiro , H S Grantham , N Aguilar-Amuchastegui , N J Murray , V Gond , D Bonfils , O Rickenbach
Forest condition in the Congo Basin for the assessment of ecosystem conservation status
Ecological Indicators , volume 122 Posted: 2021
J Reiche , A Mullissa , B Slagter , Y Gou , N E Tsendbazar , C Odongo-Braun , A Vollrath , M J Weisse , F Stolle , A Pickens , G Donchyts
Forest disturbance alerts for the Congo Basin using Sentinel-1
Environmental Research Letters , volume 16 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
239
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies