Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Look Back at the Future of the Accounting Profession

Posted: 8 Apr 2004

Byron K Henry

Howard University

M. Hicks

Howard University

Date Written: January 2004

Abstract

The past has often offered a unique vantage point from which to view the future. In a speech given at the First Annual Accountants' Day at Texas Christian University, Stettler (1968) discussed anticipated changes in professional auditing practice and in the accountant who would provide these services. Stettler (1968) commented that the profession was often criticized for its 'crawfish' or backward-looking approach to facing and responding to changing economic and social climates. In light of such criticism, Stettler (1968) made several predictions regarding the state of the profession in the year 2000.

The purpose of the paper is to reflect on his predictions and to examine why some expectations have been met; while others have not. Stettler's predictions were an effort to look at what lay ahead for the profession. Each prediction was grounded in the history of the profession and the recognition that certain events were destined to impact both the accounting professional and the services he provided. Due to recent events in the business and regulatory climates, the profession is once again faced with reexamining its role in the community and preserving the integrity of the capital markets. Within this context, Stettler's predictions can serve to guide and facilitate needed discussion. Such discussion is crucial to the viability of the profession and necessary to generate conversation among all stakeholders - practitioners, clients, regulators, educators, students and the society at large - to insure the profession remains responsive to their collective needs.

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Byron K and Hicks, Margaret, A Look Back at the Future of the Accounting Profession (January 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=494744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.494744
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,354
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies