Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intersection of Forensics Finance and Green Bonds 

12 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: June 15, 2023

Abstract

Numerous instances of abuse have been uncovered due to the rising interest in green bonds and investments in green finance. The term "green bond" or "green financial instrument" is used interchangeably with "green bond" to indicate financial instruments earmarked for environmentally friendly investments. In 2007, the European Investment Bank issued the first green bond that attracted global attention. Afterwards, the market for green bonds saw tremendous growth by establishing different indices for green investments. A green bond aims to promote investment projects or assets' climate or environmental qualities. Following this belief, a principle paper titled Green Bond Principles (GBPs) has been published to ensure the credibility of green investments. Among the provided principles, "Use of Proceeds" is stated as "an issuer should communicate to investors the environmental sustainability objectives of the project," and "Reporting" is stated as "the issuer should, to the extent possible, provide annual reports that include a list of the projects to which the proceeds have been allocated, as well as a brief description of the projects and the amounts allocated, and the expected impact." Following this guideline, though different institutions, organisations, and governments in various countries have provided their definitions of "green" financial instruments, no clear definition of "green" has been adopted. In other words, to be labelled as "green," a financial instrument should be used for green purposes and should provide strong evidence that this "green" investment has been made on that proposed asset. Otherwise, these instruments' financial sustainability and purpose-investment fraud might pose increasing challenges to continuing market growth and credibility when green investments or share prices go wrong. Therefore, it was deemed urgent to study how properly managing and documenting green bond investments would improve the integrity and credibility of green financial assets and instruments.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Intersection of Forensics Finance and Green Bonds  (June 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4952377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4952377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Women, Gender, & Human Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies