Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impairment Test and Earning Persistence: An Analysis of Brazilian Companies Listed on the [B]3

23 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2024

Josimar Pires da Silva

Universidade Federal da Grande Dourados

Paulo Sérgio Almeida Santos

Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso

Rafael Martins Noriller

Universidade Federal da Grande Dourados

Abstract

The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between the recognition of impairment losses and the persistence of earnings of Brazilian companies listed on the [B]3. The original sample was obtained from the Thomson Reuters database, which comprises the 400 Brazilian publicly traded companies listed on the Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão [B]3.  The requirements for measurement, recognition and disclosure of the impairment test came into force for Brazilian companies as of January 1, 2010. Therefore, the sample period for this study is from 2010 to 2023. All the financial information for the 338 Brazilian companies was downloaded from the Thomson Reuters database. The results show that an increase in exposure to the impairment test is associated with a reduction in the earnings persistence coefficient. Thus, our null hypothesis can be rejected. This result provides strong support for the argument that the proportion of assets that result in impairment losses reduces the persistence of profits. It is suggested that the recognition of impairment losses reduces the persistence of expected returns and, therefore, should reduce the predictability of future performance.

Keywords: Impairment test. Earnings persistence. Earning quality. Brazilian companies.

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Josimar Pires da and Santos, Paulo Sérgio Almeida and Noriller, Rafael Martins, Impairment Test and Earning Persistence: An Analysis of Brazilian Companies Listed on the [B]3. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4956684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4956684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
References
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
K R C P Alves , C A T Silva
Teste de recuperabilidade de ativos e suavização de resultados: um estudo nas empresas brasileiras listada na B3 , volume 20 Posted: 2020
M P Arruda , De , C A M Vieira , E Paulo , W G L Lucena
Análise do Conservadorismo e Persistência dos Resultados Contábeis das Instituições Financeiras Brasileiras. Sociedade, Contabilidade e Gestão , volume 10 , p. 23 - 35 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
272
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies