Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Don't Stand a Chance, Take it! The Role of Accounting Practices in Making Migrants as Burdens

31 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024

Amanda Curry

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mikaela Herbert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Johan Sandström

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stig Westerdahl

Malmo University

Abstract

This paper highlights how various accounting practices produce statistical representations of migrants’ self-sufficiency, in effect defining most migrants as burdens to society, and how migrants themselves draw on accounting practices to challenge or reproduce the valuation and normativity of these representations. The paper draws on ethnographic research related to the introduction of newly arrived forced migrants in Sweden. Conceptually, the paper draws on research in the intersection between accounting and valuation studies. Focusing on a detailed and empirically grounded analysis of accounting’s discursive positions, the paper highlights how accounting practices influence the valuation of people in vulnerable situations and underlines the political consequences of such practices.

Keywords: accounting practices, migration, refugees, statistical representations

Suggested Citation:

Curry, Amanda and Herbert, Mikaela and Sandström, Johan and Westerdahl, Stig, You Don't Stand a Chance, Take it! The Role of Accounting Practices in Making Migrants as Burdens. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4972356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4972356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
G Agyemang
Perilous journeys across the seas: The accounting logic in Europe's agenda for migration
Accounting in conflict: Globalization, gender, race and class Posted: 2017
G Agyemang , C R Lehman
Adding critical accounting voices to migration studies
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 261 - 272 Posted: 2013
B Anderson
New directions in migration studies: towards methodological denationalism
Comparative migration studies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2019
B Anderson
Imagined communities: Reflections on the origin and spread of nationalism
The new social theory reader , p. 282 - 288 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
177
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies