Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Four Public Sector Narratives of Reform and Implementation in New Zealand 1990 -2020

55 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2024 Last revised: 22 Dec 2024

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: May 08, 2024

Abstract

The compilation of four interviews into a book which could be accessed in the public domain was prompted by the desire for these narratives to remain available for further examination and interrogation after their initial contribution to academic journal articles.  The interviewees had made the effort of reviewing and editing the transcripts for later deposition in the oral history repositories at the NZ National Library, but this did not eventuate due the changing repository policies. They all provided permission for the transcripts to be located in the public domain, and interviews were conducted with this foremost in mind. The interviews in this compilation were with Kevin Simpkins, Lyn Provost, Ken Warren and Warren Allen. The reflection on these interviews is offered by Prof Carolyn Cordery

In her reflection, Cordery noted that “while some issues raised in these interviews represent the particular time when they were undertaken (e.g. the discussions on the developing Social Benefits Standard or leases), all of the interviewees also reflect on the significant reforms in New Zealand’s public sector financial environment from the late 1980s through to the present. This makes them of domestic and international interest – given the innovations in the New Zealand public sector during that period.

These interviews focus on the work experiences of four specific people. Each of them is very modest and they often credit others for progressing specific issues. However, they represent some of the best of New Zealand’s public sector leaders in accounting and assurance in this period. One aspect they spotlight is the desire to ‘do better’ or to have the public sector ‘do better’. This includes, for example, ensuring clearer accounting of and for particular issues (e.g. ensuring all liabilities and assets are ‘on’ balance sheet) or better communication of performance to the users of audited annual reports. This desire to improve accounting, assurance (to ensure public sector reporting is trusted) and processes is replicated across New Zealand’s public sector. As citizens, we are fortunate to benefit from this culture. In my work as a standard-setter, researcher and educationalist, I appreciate the work of these four individuals and many others who have helped my endeavours as they have sought to ‘make a difference’. 

Each interviewee also provides snapshots that give a sense of how each of them have ‘given back’ to society, especially in accounting and assurance. They have been unstintingly in donating their time - undertaking guest lectures, mentoring professionals and in making and aiding the development of submissions to standard setters. I note the concerns they raised of who the next generation of public sector financial leaders will be and who will train them. The falling rolls in students studying accounting world-wide means we must enthuse young people about accounting generally, as well as to continue to highlight the contributions that can be made in the public sector. Without this, the gains that have been made may well be lost”.

Overall, these interviews permitted researchers to benefit from sophisticated insights into the origins and dominance of novel concepts in public sector financial reporting in New Zealand.  I have prepared this publication to ensure such valuable insights continue to be available to researchers of accounting and financial reporting histories New Zealand, and international financial reporting developments for public sector institutions.

Ethics Approval

These interviews were conducted under ethical approval from Vistroai University of Wellington, NZ

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., Four Public Sector Narratives of Reform and Implementation in New Zealand 1990 -2020 (May 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
Lyn Provost: No, if he had done some crimes -like a husband rapes or beats his wife-he can be expelled from the village and unless he leaves within 24 hours they will burn down his house. It is a form of accountability and a form of justice
Rachel Baskerville
Like enforcing very strong kin, family and social bonds within each village
Lyn Provost
But they also count wealth by pigs. I didn't actually realize that it is not the money
Rachel Baskerville
And their value is constantly increasing
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies