Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research on the Impact of Financial Flexibility on Audit Fees

18 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024

caijie zhu

Shandong University of Finance and Economics

Luyao Zhang

Shandong University of Finance and Economics

shuai yu

Shandong University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

Financial flexibility refers to the capacity of enterprises to adapt to external uncertainties. Enhancing financial flexibility not only aids in optimizing resource allocation for enterprises, but also effectively manages financial risks, which subsequently impacts auditors' decision-making process. This study investigates the influence of firms' financial flexibility on audit fees, with a focus on the moderating role of earnings volatility. The findings reveal that greater financial flexibility within a corporation leads to a reduction in audit fees; however, higher surplus volatility hinders this reduction effect. Furthermore, the impact of financial flexibility on the decrease in audit fees is more pronounced for private enterprises or those operating in high uncertainty environments. This research not only offers new insights into the relationship between corporate financial flexibility and surplus volatility, but also assists auditors in accurately assessing risks and establishing appropriate audit fees.

Keywords: Financial flexibility；Audit fees；Earnings volatility

Suggested Citation:

zhu, caijie and Zhang, Luyao and yu, shuai, Research on the Impact of Financial Flexibility on Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , C Florackis , A Ozkan , M King , D T Mauer , C
Financial flexibility, corporate investment and performance: evidence from financial crises
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 211 - 250 Posted: 2014
D Bryan , D B Mason , T W Reynolds , J K
Growth Opportunities and the Choice of Leverage, Debt Maturity, and Covenants
Earnings Autocorrelation, Earnings Volatility, and Audit Fees , volume 62 , p. 47 - 69 Posted: 2007
S Byoun , C Ssrn Elibrary. Chen , W S C Leung , X D Tao , H B Wang
The impact of financial reporting flexibility on auditor risk judgement: Evidence from the implementation of FIN 46R
Financial Flexibility and Capital Structure Decision Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies