Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scramble and Partition of Africa 2.0

24 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

There are few universally understood verities in African politics and political economy, but one is "Scramble and Partition of Africa". This expression is the hallmark of the narrow dualistic binary polity discourse and quintessential in introducing students and beginners to the world of continents and decolonisation. But its meaning is largely missing from outreach materials. Such books or papers, focusing on simple, direct, powerful narratives, do not require theoretical amplification, hyperbole, or sunk costs to interpret and understand what it comprises, its discursive standing or policy implications, funding mechanisms, benefits, or down-the-line effects in its production. The articles reveal that binary extremes might be established in the busiest centres of inter-imperial and intercontinental conjunction without much explanation or intervention.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Scramble and Partition of Africa 2.0 (October 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4986672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4986672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Development Economics: Macroeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Regional & Country Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies