Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Firms and Control System Design – a Socioemotional Wealth Perspective

44 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2024

Demetri Nikolias

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS Business School

David S. Bedford

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Prabhu Sivabalan

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS Business School

Abstract

Family firms play a considerable role in the global economy, creating a significant amount of wealth and employment worldwide. Despite the prevalence of this organisational form, research on the design and use of management accounting and controls practices and the role of management accounting in family firms remains under-developed. This has prompted recent calls by influential voices within the management accounting literature to increase our knowledge of the impact/consequences that family firms have on accounting practices (Sandgren, et al, 2023; Prencipe, Bar-Yosef and Dekker, 2014). A decade on, studies on the same remain sparse and our understanding of the workings of family firms and the role of accounting in them remain under-developed (Najera and Collazzo, 2021). Responding to this call, this study aims to contribute to the management accounting literature by providing a comprehensive description of management control structure in a large family firm while engaging with the concept of socioemotional wealth, to extend our perspective around how MCS are designed and used in family firms (Jain, et al, 2023). The findings from the study illustrate how SEW affects the application of performance planning and evaluation controls in our case setting.  We particularly note the role of organizational structures in mobilising how SEW is generated and preserved.  We also note the novel way in which tight budget targets are applied and used, and the continuing persistence of group rewards across the most senior levels of the organization (for both base salary and bonus determination) and separately, across junior employee levels within separate business units, even when tasks in these business units are highly individualized and differentiated. We attribute the stronger organization-business unit performance connection to the high emphasis on SEW in the organization.  Our findings broadly speak to the significance of SEW as a driver for the way in which accounting controls are designed and used in organisations as they relate to organization structure, and the strong persistence of tight budgetary targets and group rewards.

Keywords: Management accounting, socioemotional wealth, budgeting, family firms

Suggested Citation:

Nikolias, Demetri and Bedford, David S. and Sivabalan, Prabhu, Family Firms and Control System Design – a Socioemotional Wealth Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4993630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4993630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
637
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies