Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Backflush Accounting's Impact on Financial Performance: A Study of Total Nigeria Plc in the Oil and Gas Sector

18 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: October 22, 2024

Abstract

This paper evaluated the impact of backflush accounting on the financial performance of oil and gas companies in Nigeria, specifically focusing on Total Nigeria Plc over a ten-year period from 2013 to 2022. Data were sourced from the annual reports of the company, with backflush accounting represented by proxies labour costs, raw material consumable costs, and inventory turnover costs, while financial performance was measured using return on assets (ROA). The study utilized an ex-post facto research design and employed descriptive statistics and simple regression analysis using e-View version 10. The findings revealed that labour costs, raw material consumable costs, and inventory turnover costs did not have a significant impact on the ROA of Nigerian oil and gas companies. The study concluded that backflush accounting does not significantly influence the financial performance of Total Nigeria Plc. It is recommended that Nigerian oil and gas companies should enhance their adoption of backflush accounting techniques to improve innovation, reduce unnecessary operational costs, lower inventory expenses, and maintain the flexibility needed to adapt to changing conditions, thereby potentially enhancing their financial performance.

Keywords: Backflush Accounting, iinventory turnover cost, raw material consumable, staff cost, return on assets

Declaration of Interest

I declares that this paper is my original work and is finance by me

Funder Statement

self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, Evaluating Backflush Accounting's Impact on Financial Performance: A Study of Total Nigeria Plc in the Oil and Gas Sector (October 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5007159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5007159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
U I Abbas , M M Abu
Impact of financial control mechanisms on profitability performance: a case of manufacturing firms in Nigeria
International Journal of Managerial Studies and Research (IJMSR) , volume 7 , issue 30 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2019
A N Abdillah
Effect of inventory turnover on the level of profitability
Materials Science and Engineering Posted: 2020
A A Adeniyi
Performance management study text
ISBN , volume 978 Posted: 2014
O A Ajala
Cost control and financial performance of pharmaceutical firms in Nigeria
Journal of Corporate Finance Management and Banking System JCFMBS , issue 1 , p. 16 - 23 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
649,413
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies