Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation and Real Earnings Management: The Moderating Effect of Executives’ Accounting Expertise

29 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2024

Eunho Cho

North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University

Danielle D. Winchester

North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University

Nicole Renee McCoy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohammad Hashemi Joo

California State University - Los Angeles

Abstract

AbstractPurpose - This study investigates the moderating effect of executives with accounting expertise on the relationship between executive compensation and real earnings management (REM).Design/methodology/approach - Utilizing a sample of 4,158 firm-year observations from Chinese-listed manufacturing companies between 2005 and 2016, we conduct multiple regression analyses for the baseline results and use a two-stage least squares (2SLS) method and Propensity score matching (PSM) analysis for the robustness tests.Findings - This study shows that executives with accounting expertise strengthen the negative association between executive compensation and REM, suggesting that the presence of executives with accounting expertise is a significant deterrent to REM. The results remain robust across various tests.Originality/value - This study contributes to the existing literature on earnings management and corporate governance. It is the first to explore how executives with accounting expertise moderate the relationship between executive compensation and REM. These insights highlight the importance of incorporating accounting expertise into the executive team to prevent earnings manipulation. It is essential that executives receive a competitive salary and that the executive team includes members with the requisite accounting expertise. This study highlights the importance of accounting expertise in corporate governance and opens avenues for future research.

Keywords: Accounting expertise, Accrual earnings management, Executive compensation, Real earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Eunho and Winchester, Danielle D. and McCoy, Nicole Renee and Hashemi Joo, Mohammad, Executive Compensation and Real Earnings Management: The Moderating Effect of Executives’ Accounting Expertise. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5014428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Adut , A D Holder , A Robin
Predictive versus opportunistic earnings management, executive compensation, and firm performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 126 - 146 Posted: 2013
R Alkebsee , A A Alhebry , G Tian
Whose cash compensation has more influence on real earnings management, CEOs or CFOs
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 210 Posted: 2022
M Almadi , P Lazic
CEO incentive compensation and earnings management: The implications of institutions and governance systems
Management Decision , volume 54 , issue 10 , p. 2447 - 2461 Posted: 2016
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
RANK
805,836
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies