Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Bookkeeper Decision Support Through Graph Representation Learning for Bank Reconciliation

50 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2024

Justin Munoz

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Mahdi Jalili

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Laleh Tafakori

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Abstract

The emergence of cloud-based bookkeeping platforms has made it possible to streamline decision-making in tedious accounting tasks, such as bank reconciliation. Bank reconciliation involves tracing the expected cash flow from invoices and bills to the actual payments recorded in a business’s bank feeds. A bookkeeper is responsible for ensuring that every payment listed in a business’s bank statement is accurately matched to financial activity recorded in the bookkeeping system. This process is crucial for maintaining the accuracy and integrity of the business's financial records. Current decision-support systems leverage natural language processing to recommend close matches for incoming bank feeds. While these approaches are effective for one-to-one matching, they underperform in identifying one-to-many matches, which are common and significantly more complex for larger businesses. In this work, we investigate the value of embedding relational data along with natural language in identifying matches to support the bank reconciliation process. Our proposed graph-based system surpasses industry benchmarks on one-to-one matching and offers a more robust decision support solution for the identification of one-to-many matches. Additionally, we introduce a novel post-processing technique, Top Boundary Ranking, which enhances the system's detection of group-based matches.

Keywords: Representation Learning, Graph Embeddings, Record Linkage, Link Prediction, Bookkeeping, Decision-support Systems

Suggested Citation:

Munoz, Justin and Jalili, Mahdi and Tafakori, Laleh, Enhancing Bookkeeper Decision Support Through Graph Representation Learning for Bank Reconciliation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5019966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5019966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
References
O Dimitriu , M Matei
A new paradigm for accounting through cloud computing
Procedia economics and finance , volume 15 , p. 840 - 846 Posted: 2014
J Munoz , M Jalili , L Tafakori
Hierarchical classification for account code suggestion
Knowledge-Based Systems , volume 251 Posted: 2022
D Ma , R Fisher , T Nesbit
Cloud-based client accounting and small and medium accounting practices: Adoption and impact
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 41 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,935
RANK
33,191
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Artificial Intelligence eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies