Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Impact of Employee Gender Differences on Business Operating Performance

17 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2024

Chia-Chi Lee

National Taipei University of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study aims to explore the impact of gender differences on the business operating performance of accounting firms, and to provide a reference for firm managers to make decisions on work allocation. The data is collected from the Financial Supervisory Commission’s “2019 Survey Report of Accounting Firms Service Industry” Database, and the multiple regression analysis is adopted as the research method. In this study, four indicators are used to measure the business operating performance: revenue from public issuance and certification, tax service, management consulting, business registration, and other executive services; The proportions of male partnership accountants, male professional assistants, female partnership accountants, and female professional assistants were used as independent variables, while the control variables include the firm age, the business form, the number of branches, and the firm size. The results of this study are as follows: (1) There are more male partnership accountants and more female professional assistants in both partnership and sole proprietorship firms. (2) Increasing the number of male partnership accountants is beneficial to the revenue from the public issuance and certification and the revenue from business registration and other executive services. Increasing the number of male professional assistants is also helpful to the revenue from management consulting, while increasing the number of female professional assistants can increase the revenue from tax services. (3) The business performance of sole proprietorship firms is greatly affected by gender differences, while that of partnership firms is not affected by gender differences. (4) In larger firms, the benefits that can be brought to revenue in each of the four business markets are more significant. Based on the results, this study suggests that when assigning jobs in a diversified business market, managers should assign appropriate jobs according to gender advantages to give full play to employees’ strengths and improve work efficiency, which in turn will enhance the operating performance of the firm.

Keywords: Gender, Employee job level, Business market, Operating performance, Accounting firm

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Chia-Chi, Exploring the Impact of Employee Gender Differences on Business Operating Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5027713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5027713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R D Banker , H Chang , R Natarajan
Productivity change, technical progress, and relative efficiency change in the public accounting industry
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 2005
Y L Chen , M Z Huang
Diversified service strategies, information technology and accounting firm performance
Management Review , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 96 Posted: 2011
Y S Chen , C C Lee
Performance of strategic alliances between business consulting and accounting firms: a resource-based perspective
Journal of Management and Systems , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 499 - 522 Posted: 2006
Y S Chen , Z L Lin
Production performance, human capital and technical efficiency -taking partnership accounting firms as an example
The 2005 Joint Annual Meeting of the Taiwan Economic Association and the North American Chinese Economic Association Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
209
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies