Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Studying the Influence of Factors on Responsibility Accounting Organization in Businesses: A Case at Thang Long Tobacco Company Limited

15 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024

Tu Chuc Anh

Academy of Finance

Abstract

Management accounting in general and responsibility accounting in particular is one of the tools used in the corporate governance process. The organization and application of these management tools is influenced by many factors. Responsibility is not outside that scope. This article studies the factors affecting the organization of responsibility accounting at Thang Long Tobacco Company Limited, a company operating in the field of manufacturing and trading tobacco products. Research results show that the responsibility accounting organization is most influenced by the cognitive factor of company administrators and least influenced by the factor of enterprise size.

Keywords: Thang Long Tobacco Company Limited, Factors effecting, Responsibility Accounting Organization

Suggested Citation:

Chuc Anh, Tu, Studying the Influence of Factors on Responsibility Accounting Organization in Businesses: A Case at Thang Long Tobacco Company Limited. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5045837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5045837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
The impact of firm characteristics on management accounting practices: A UK-based empirical analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 27 Posted: 2008
K Ahmad
The use of management accounting practices in Malaysian SMEs, Thesis for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Accountancy Posted: 2012
Doan Anh , Ngoc Phi
Factors affecting the application of management accounting and its impact on enterprise performance
Journal of Development Economics , volume 226 , p. 45 - 53 Posted: 2016
Hoang Anh , Ha
Responsibility accounting in enterprises belonging to Vietnam Electricity Group, PhD thesis in economics Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
349
RANK
849,077
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies