Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Widening the Definition of “Counter-Accounting”: A Synthesis of Legitimacy Management, Neutralisation Techniques and Resistance to Change by Auditors

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

43 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Warren Maroun

University of the Witwatersrand

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Wayne Van Zijl

University of the Witwatersrand

Dannielle Cerbone

University of the Witwatersrand

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper broadens the concept of counter-accounting beyond its conventional focus on social and environmental issues to investigate how audit firms sustain professional dominance despite recurring scandals. Drawing on legitimacy management and institutional theory, we propose a framework that explains how auditors employ a range of tactics to resist reform while safeguarding their legitimacy. Our analysis highlights how audit firms systematically respond to challenges from diverse counter-accountants—such as the media, regulators, and governments—through a coordinated process of symbolic display, ritualistic practices, and strategic resistance. The framework illustrates that seemingly disparate theoretical constructs of professional defence are, in fact, components of a unified strategy designed to uphold existing power structures and circumvent meaningful reform. We demonstrate how counter- and primary-accounting practices operate at individual, firm, and profession-wide levels, with responses varying based on the power, persistence, and expertise of the counter-accountants involved. This study advances critical accounting literature by exposing how audit firms maintain their dominance through sophisticated legitimacy management, rather than solely through technical competence. The findings have important implications for understanding professional resistance to change and the shortcomings of current regulatory frameworks.

Keywords: audit, counter-accounting, legitimacy, professional hegemony

Suggested Citation:

Maroun, Warren and Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Van Zijl, Wayne and Cerbone, Dannielle, Widening the Definition of “Counter-Accounting”: A Synthesis of Legitimacy Management, Neutralisation Techniques and Resistance to Change by Auditors. Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5053774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5053774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
E Abrahamson , P Baumard
What lies behind organizational façades and how organizational façades lie: An untold story of organizational decision making Posted: 2008
B E Ashforth , B W Gibbs
The Double-Edge of Organisational Legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
J F Atkins , B Atkins , W Maroun , E Barone , D Gozman
Conservation through conversation? Therapeutic engagement on biodiversity and extinction between NGOs and companies
Business Strategy and the Environment Posted: 2022
J Bebbington , J Brown , B Frame , I Thomson
Theorizing engagement: the potential of a critical dialogic approach
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
687,646
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies