Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Solvency Ii Mandatory Implementation and Analysts’ Forecast Properties

43 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Evangelos Seretis

University of Glasgow

Mark Aleksanyan

University of Glasgow

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Abstract

Since January 1, 2016, insurance firms in the European Economic Area (EEA) have been required to comply with the Solvency II framework and publish Solvency and Financial Condition Reports (SFCR) containing mandatory market-based risk disclosures. As analysts are primary recipients of these reports, we investigate whether and how analyst forecast properties have changed following the provision of Solvency II information. Using a sample of EEA insurers and a difference-in-differences design, we find reductions in analysts’ earnings forecast errors at the consensus and individual levels, as well as a decrease in forecast dispersion. These findings contribute to the literature on financial and risk reporting in the insurance industry and analysts’ responses to reporting changes, providing insights for regulators on the benefits of Solvency II disclosures.

Keywords: Solvency and Financial Condition Report, SFCR, Solvency II, analyst properties, insurance firms

Suggested Citation:

Seretis, Evangelos and Aleksanyan, Mark and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, Solvency Ii Mandatory Implementation and Analysts’ Forecast Properties. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5060720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5060720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S Abhayawansa , M Aleksanyan , S Cuganesan
Conceptualisation of intellectual capital in analysts' narratives: a performative view
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 950 - 969 Posted: 2018
proposals-for-Solvency-II-2020-Review-Package-on-Supervisory-Reporting-and-Public-Disclosure_ACE-response.pdf Posted: 2019-07
P André , D Dionysiou , I Tsalavoutas
Mandated disclosures under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: value relevance and impact on analysts' forecasts
Applied Economics , volume 50 , issue 7 , p. 707 - 725 Posted: 2018
M Anolli , E Beccalli , P Molyneux
Bank earnings forecasts, risk and the crisis
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 29 , p. 309 - 335 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
RANK
772,528
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies