Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Financial Statements: Evidence from Oil and Gas Companies Listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (2014-2023)

15 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: August 08, 2024

Abstract

Discussions concerning the applicability and significance of fair value accounting persist in a financial environment that is changing quickly. In the face of investor scrutiny and market volatility, it is imperative that oil and gas companies accurately portray their financial health. In order to clarify the efficacy of fair value accounting in the Nigerian context, this study investigates the ways in which company factors impact earnings. With an emphasis on MRS Oil Nigeria Plc (2014-2023), this study looks at fair value accounting and financial statements in oil and gas companies listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX). This study's specific objective was to determine the impact of company size, age, and leverage on earnings per share of oil and gas companies. An ex-post facto research design was adopted. We performed a trend analysis and a SWOT analysis. Descriptive analysis was also emphasis while the Multiple Ordinary Least Squares regression method was used to test the hypotheses using e-view software. Shockingly, the results of the study showed that the earnings per share of oil and gas companies listed on the NGX during the reviewed period were not significantly impacted by the age, leverage, or size of the company (p-values of 0.8098, 0.3208, and 0.0636 > 0.05 threshold of significance, respectively). This suggests that fair value accounting has no discernible effect on financial statements. The study recommends that oil and gas companies prioritize innovation, operational efficiency, and customer satisfaction over company size, leverage, or historical presence in order to increase earning quality via EPS.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, company's' age, leverage, size, financial statements and earnings per share

Declaration of Interest

no personal or financial relationship with persons or organisations

Funder Statement

self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, Fair Value Accounting and Financial Statements: Evidence from Oil and Gas Companies Listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (2014-2023) (August 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5063189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5063189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A N Agha
Earnings per share impact on nonfinancial firms performance
Journal of Economic Info (JEI) , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2014
S T Ajagbe , B O Bolaji , T O Usman
Impact of financial statement analysis on bank's customer patronage of selected banks in Nigeria
Al-Hikmah International Journal of Finance (AHIJoF) , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 2021
O W Akeem , O K Akinwumi , C D Tinuola
Corporate attributes and financial performance of listed agricultural and agro-allied companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Accounting Research , issue 2 , p. 103 - 111 Posted: 2022
O D Akwu , G N Ofoegbu , R G Okafor
Fair value measurement, depreciation and profitability of listed manufacturing companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Scientific Research and Innovative Technology , volume 4 , issue 9 , p. 153 - 176 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
RANK
502,214
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Quantitative Methods in Investing & Financial Statement Analysis eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies