Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How did the Sung Empire recruit, train, and remunerate their financial experts?

19 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Lin Ma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 19, 2024

Abstract

This paper aims to provide a fundamental understanding of the more profound studies of financial officials of the Sung Empire (960 CE to 1279 CE). Although financial experts of the Sung Empire already attracted studies in Sinology, few paper is dedicated to the human resource management of financial experts in the Sung Empire. Therefore, this paper reviews existing studies and historical texts to unveil the mechanisms of human resource management of the Sung Empire. These mechanisms included recruitment, performance assessment, appointments to new job positions, and remunerations. This paper facilitates the building of models in future quantitative studies.

Keywords: History, Government, Accounting Practitioner, Accounting Profession. JEL Classification: H10

JEL Classification: H10, N00, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Lin, How did the Sung Empire recruit, train, and remunerate their financial experts? (December 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5063913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5063913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
B Bueno De Mesquita , A Smith , R M Siverson , J D Morrow
The logic of political survival Posted: 2003
R M Hartwell
Financial expertise, examinations, and the formulation of economic policy in Northern Sung China
The Journal of Asian Studies , volume 30 , issue 2 Posted: 1971
E A Kracke
Civil service in early Sung China 960-1067 Posted: 1953
W G Liu
The making of a fiscal state in Song China
Economic History Review , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 960 - 1279 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
229
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies