Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extending Robson's Inscriptions to Management Accounting

35 Pages Posted: 25 Dec 2024

Gary Spraakman

York University

Abstract

Johnson and Kaplan (1987) concluded that management accounting information was “too late, too aggregated, and too distorted to be relevant for managers’ planning and control decisions.” That conclusion can be explained by Robson’s (1992) financial accounting inscription attributes. Robson’s (1992) was extended to management accounting by, first examining the literature to understand management accounting from an inscription perspective and second testing the literature suggestions with the Hudson’s Bay Company evidence at three historical stages of management accounting: barter-based, financial accounting-based, and enterprise resources planning-augmented. To explain Johnson and Kaplan’s (1987) conclusion three additional contributions were put forth in terms of management accounting inscription attributes: physical or social realty, temporality, and uncertainty These attributes along with those of Robson (1992) ensure that management accounting information is not too late, not too aggregated, and not too distorted.As there were no human participants, ethic approval was not required.

Keywords: financial accounting, management accounting, inscriptions, Hudson's Bay Company, signs

Suggested Citation:

Spraakman, Gary, Extending Robson's Inscriptions to Management Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5071412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5071412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
W R Ashby
An introduction to cybernetics Posted: 1956
R A Bryer , R A Bryer
Accounting for the "railway mania" of 1845-A great railway swindle? Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 16 , p. 131 - 162 Posted: 1991
R A Bryer
The history of accounting and the transition to capitalism in England , volume 25 , p. 327 - 381 Posted: 2000
P M Collier
Entrepreneurial control and the construction of a relevant accounting
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies