Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind the Gap: Optimism Expressed in the Summary and Full Content of Annual Reports

42 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2024

Menglin Cui

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology

chris chin

Chengdu University of Technology

Peng Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper introduces the concept of optimism gap. We gauge the extent of optimism gap by companies express higher degree of optimism in the summary of annual report (SAR) than in the full content of annual report (FAR). We examine the contributing factors behind companies optimism gap, and to explore how investors react to the gap. We hypothesize and empirically validate that companies exhibit optimism gap perform poorly in the terms of lower earnings, firm value, lower earnings quality, and higher bankruptcy risk in the subsequent year. Additional analysis suggests that companies engage in earnings management to support optimism gap. In terms of investor reactions, results show that investors have no immediate reactions to optimism gap during the short-term, but they have delayed and negative reactions to it in the future. Our research highlights the necessity of monitoring impression management.

Keywords: Impression Management, Textual Disclosure Risk, corporate performance, Textual Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Menglin and chin, chris and Liu, Peng, Mind the Gap: Optimism Expressed in the Summary and Full Content of Annual Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5074902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5074902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
C Antoniou , A Kumar , A Maligkris
Terrorist attacks, managerial sentiment, and corporate policies Posted: 2017
W Aerts , P Cheng
Causal disclosures on earnings and earnings management in an IPO setting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 431 - 459 Posted: 2011
W Aerts , P Cheng , A Tarca
Management's earnings justification and earnings management under different institutional regimes
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 115 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
343
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies