Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of fully automated electronic processes within the accounting system

13 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Marilena Ene Mucuta

Valahia University

Maria Georgiana Ponea

Valahia University

ALFRED NAJM

Valahia University

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

The technological evolution is strongly visible in all aspects of social and economic life, in the business environment, as well as in the management of patrimonial assets and liabilities, as part of computerization. The operationalization of computer systems at the level of the accounting system aims to create tools for quantifying the evaluation and control processes in order to increase the efficiency of a company, as a result of the decision process. Appling integrated systems at finance& accounting management level has the role of rationalizing the consumption of limited economic resources with the aim of reducing long-term accounting costs, increasing operational efficiency, rapid recovery of investments in the production process, including technological investments, with the intention of CAPEX generated in order to restore the technological infrastructure affected by obsolete equipment and impacted by technical development, adapting the production methods used at the company level to e-business models.

Keywords: computer system, accounting system, computerization, development, evaluation and control process, JEL codes: D21, C61

Suggested Citation:

Ene Mucuta, Marilena and Ponea, Maria Georgiana and NAJM, ALFRED, Implementation of fully automated electronic processes within the accounting system (August 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5082611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5082611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
V Gaftea
Blockchain, from technology to economy , volume 8 Posted: 2019-08
R H Garrison
Managerial Accounting, Concepts for Planning, Control Decision Making edition BPI/IRWIN Posted: 2008
V M Gluskov , Vedenie V Kibernetiku , Izdatelstvo Kiev , Rss Akademii Naukukrainskoi
, p. 299 - 307 Posted: 1964
S Kelly , N Gibson , Holland Ch , B Light
Focus Issue on Legacy Information Systems and Business Process Engineering: a Business Perspective of Legacy Information Systems
Communications of the AIS , volume 2 , issue 7 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1999-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
238
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies