Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two Centuries of Krupp - Annual Reports (1811-1998) Through the Lens of Value Added Distribution

50 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025

Thorben Bonn

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of International Accounting

Rolf Uwe Fülbier

University of Bayreuth

Emil Gehrt

University of Bayreuth - Faculty of Law, Business and Economics

Bernhard Pellens

University of Bochum

Date Written: October 10, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides an in-depth analysis of Krupp's accounting practices and its stakeholder-oriented value-added distribution over a period spanning nearly two centuries, from the company’s founding in 1811 to its merger into ThyssenKrupp AG in 1998. By examining Krupp’s financial statements in the context of significant social, political, and economic developments, we reveal how its accounting history reflects broader trends in stakeholder engagement and value added distribution. The study’s primary objective was to quantify the total value added by Krupp over time and assess its impact on stakeholders. Our findings suggest that Krupp consistently prioritized its employees in the distribution of value added, especially during economic downturns, when dividends to shareholders were reduced before any workforce cuts were considered.

Keywords: accounting, accounting history, business history, stakeholder, value added, value creation, value distribution

Suggested Citation:

Bonn, Thorben and Fülbier, Rolf Uwe and Gehrt, Emil and Pellens, Bernhard, Two Centuries of Krupp - Annual Reports (1811-1998) Through the Lens of Value Added Distribution (October 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5124163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5124163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Ascherfeld
She stemmed from a successful merchant family and married into the likewise successful Krupp merchant family, with whom she already had family ties, as the first Krupp in Essen, Arndt Krupp, was her great-great-great-grandfather
She ran a colonial goods business Posted: 2000
Although the widow Theresia Krupp, née Wilhelmi, initially became the sole owner of the company, her son, the 14-year-old Alfred Krupp mainly managed the business. Theresia's daughter Ida and her brother-in-law Carl Schultz also supported the continuation of the company Posted: 1988
Alfred Until , Krupp
The accounts are initially called Capital-Conto des Herrn Alfred Krupp and Capital-Conto F.A Krupp, in 1888 they are renamed Capital-Conto Fried. Krupp and Privat-Conto Fried. Alfred Krupp (see WA 4
Krupp GmbH, Bericht über das Geschäftsjahr 1968. WA 19-20. Fried. Krupp GmbH, Bericht über das Geschäftsjahr 1969. WA 6768. Fried. Krupp GmbH, Bericht über das Geschäftsjahr 1970. WA 6769. Fried. Krupp GmbH, Bericht über das Geschäftsjahr 1971. WA 6770. Fried. Krupp GmbH, Bericht über das Geschäftsjahr , volume 4 , p. 1298 - 1309 Posted: 1298
K , Villa Hügel Krupp-Archiv
Fried. Krupp Aktiengesellschaft Essen, Jahresbericht und Bilanz Posted: 1903
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
588,428
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies