Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Dividends, the Supreme Court, and the Great Crash of 1929

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No.5126189

62 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025 Last revised: 16 Feb 2025

John R. Brooks

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: February 05, 2025

Abstract

"Stock dividends"—the distribution of a corporation's own stock to its shareholders—are a relatively minor and harmless feature of corporate finance today used almost exclusively to accomplish stock splits. But for a brief period in the 1920s, they were an important part of the corporate and investing world—and, as this Article shows, were also one of major tools used to create phantom income, inflate earnings, and maintain corporate pyramid schemes leading to the 1929 stock market bubble and subsequent Great Crash. This Article also argues that this abuse of stock dividends was a direct result of a notorious Supreme Court tax case in 1920, Eisner v. Macomber. By allowing stock dividends to be issued tax-free, the Supreme Court supercharged the use of stock dividends over the next decade, helping to drive up stock valuations and fuel the 1929 bubble. Macomber has faced substantial criticism for its destabilizing effects on the tax system, but its destabilizing effects on the larger financial system have not been noted before now. Using original archival research, this Article describes the example of Samuel Insull and his public utility holding company empire—one of the nation's largest in the 1920s, but which collapsed in scandal and bankruptcy in 1932, in large part due to its manufacture of phantom income using stock dividends.



In addition to providing a new account of one of the causes of the Great Crash, a new part of the story of Samuel Insull, and a new critique of Macomber, this Article also illustrates three larger themes. First, that seemingly technical matters—in this case, the tax and accounting treatments of a relatively obscure element of corporate finance—have the potential for massive real-world impact. Second, that because of that potential impact, legal conclusions about such technical matters ought to take account of social and economic realities, not merely legal formalisms. In Macomber, the Court departed from the social understanding and past tax treatment of stock dividends based on the narrow application of a particular phrasing for a definition of “income,” and that error led in part to the 1929 bubble. Finally, this Article also describes a period of confusion, contradiction, and flux around the tax and accounting treatment of stock dividends, and to a degree both Macomber and the Great Crash also flow out of that chaos. This episode is thus an illustration of the risk and unpredictability that exists in periods of legal and economic change, such as the coinciding emergence of large corporate capitalism and a new regime of income taxation in the early 20th century.

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, John R., Stock Dividends, the Supreme Court, and the Great Crash of 1929 (February 05, 2025). Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No.5126189, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
MOODY'S MANUAL OF INVESTMENTS: AMERICAN AND FOREIGN: PUBLIC UTILITY SECURITIES , p. 831 - 832 Posted: 1930
Id
-A, supra note 24, inset Chart X, at 161-62, shows another six-corporation layer: Middle West: National Electric Power Co
INSULL, supra note 1, at 189; MCDONALD, supra note 5, at 281-82; RAMSEY, supra note 208
153; CHARLES R. MORRIS, A RABBLE OF DEAD MONEY: THE GREAT CRASH AND THE GLOBAL DEPRESSION , p. 1929 - 1939 Posted: 2017
Insull
MCDONALD, supra note 5, at 282. Charles Morris explains that the creation of CSC was due to a "technical glitch" that would have allowed IUI shareholders to dilute the insiders. MORRIS, supra, at 159. 109 FTC; see also Insull Group-Corporate Relations, supra note 105
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,362
RANK
288,883
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies