The Historical Evolution of Research in Accounting. National and European Context, Tabirca Alina Iuliana, Florin Radu, Valentin Radu"> The Historical Evolution of Research in Accounting. National and European Context">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Historical Evolution of Research in Accounting. National and European Context

7 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2025 Last revised: 17 Feb 2025

Tabirca Alina Iuliana

University of Valahia Targoviste

Florin Radu

University of Valahia Targoviste

Valentin Radu

Valahia University

Date Written: January 05, 2020

Abstract

Driven by the desire to create added value in a very generous but very difficult field of the history of accounting in Romania, and wanting to generate useful knowledge both for the academic and for the practical fields, this article aims to demonstrate the intrinsic link between economic and social development and the development of accounting through historical approach. In this context, history is not regarded as a sequence of facts, resulting in inevitable cause-effect relationships. On the contrary, it is something we have sought to avoid at all times in order to emphasize a procedural approach in which events can be analyzed in an interpretative manner. Given that history means a chain of cause and effect facts, we must draw attention to the fact that this is an ideal situation, from which we start in order to simplify reasoning. In fact, to the extent that the causes could have been objectively known, history would not have been rewritten so many times. For this reason, we prefer to approach history as an essentially discontinuous phenomenon, following major trends, speculations being what ensures the continuity of the historical process.

Keywords: historical development, accounting history, evolution of research M41, N01, B15

Suggested Citation:

Alina Iuliana, Tabirca and Radu, Florin and Radu, Valentin, The Historical Evolution of Research in Accounting. National and European Context (January 05, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5137473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5137473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
V References
R J Craig , A J Greinke
Accounting History and Governmental Inquiries: an Experiment in Adversarial Roleplay
, volume 21 , issue 2 Posted: 1994-12
J G Degos
Presses Universitaires De France (PUF), coll. Que sais-je Posted: 1998
L Dobroţeanu
Repere ale evoluţiei contabilităţii în antichitate, Contabilitatea, expertiza şi auditul afacerilor , volume 6 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies