Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merchants, Markets, and Trade Networks: A Historical Perspective on Accounting

No

16 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 16, 2025

Abstract

Ball (2024) has recently argued that double-entry bookkeeping/accounting ‘emerged around the same time and place as the manorial system began to collapse and transactions in goods and capital markets began to flourish in its stead’.  ‘So, no-one invented double entry accounting: ultimately, markets were responsible for its emergence.’

Here I argue that markets and related institutions of various forms can be seen to have evolved in the varying economic conditions of different civilisations throughout history. They are probably a necessary condition for the emergence of DEB but not a sufficient condition as it is not until 13th and 14th century Italy that its burgeoning markets are supported by DEB. In particular the Imperial Chinese experience shows how systems approximating DEB have emerged elsewhere.

Keywords: Double-entry Bookkeeping (DEB), Markets, Imperial Chinese accounting

JEL Classification: F10, G20

Suggested Citation:

Macve, Richard H., Merchants, Markets, and Trade Networks: A Historical Perspective on Accounting (February 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5140007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5140007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
V Antonelli , R D'alessio
Accounting history as a local discipline: the case of the Italian-speaking literature (1869-2008)
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
R Ball
Markets and the spontaneous emergence of double entry accounting; a short essay , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2024
S Basu , G B Waymire
The Evolution of Double-Entry Bookkeeping
SSRN , volume 3093303 Posted: 2021
D Campbell
The Capitulare de Villis, the Brevium exempla, and the Carolingian court at Aachen
Early Medieval Europe , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 265 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
280
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies