Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robert K. Mautz (1915-2002): A Thought Leader in Accounting and Auditing

37 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2025

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Phil D. Wedemeyer

Independent

Martin Emanuel Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 06, 2025

Abstract

This memorial article on Robert K. Mautz examines his pivotal contributions to accounting and auditing through his roles as an academic and practitioner. Known for seminal works like The Philosophy of Auditing and Financial Reporting by Diversified Companies, Mautz emphasized a balance between theoretical rigor and practical relevance in accounting and auditing standards. His career highlights included leadership on influential boards such as the Cost Accounting Standards Board and the Public Oversight Board, where he advocated flexible, context-sensitive accounting practices and greater professional accountability. Mautz's influence extended into academia, where he championed the development of empirical, socially relevant research in accounting. This paper explores Mautz's ideas within the evolution of auditing practices, offering insights into his enduring impact on the accounting profession.

Keywords: Robert K. Mautz, auditing theory, auditing practice, regulation, self-regulation, The Philosophy of Auditing Robert K. Mautz, auditing theory, auditing practice, regulation, The Philosophy of Auditing

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A. and Wedemeyer, Phil and Persson, Martin Emanuel, Robert K. Mautz (1915-2002): A Thought Leader in Accounting and Auditing (March 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5175037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5175037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
R Abel
The rise and fall of the Cost Accounting Standards Board
Journal of Government Financial Management , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 46 - 51 Posted: 2006
Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements and Supplements Posted: 1957
Research projects in process, Research series announcement, and Manuscript contest
The Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 917 - 919 Posted: 1965
General Accounting Office , volume 10 Posted: 1977-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
RANK
538,270
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies