Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aeneas Coffey and the Role of Tax in the Emergence of Modern Whiskey in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (eds), Studies in the History of Tax Law Vol 11 (Oxford, Hart, 2023).

28 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2025

Dominic de Cogan

University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law

Donard de Cogan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 21, 2023

Abstract

THIS CHAPTER EXAMINES the fraught relationship between excise duties and distilling technology in Ireland between 1779 and 1832, using as a lens the career of the inventor of the modern continuous still, Aeneas Coffey. Coffey started his career as an excise officer and was deeply involved in the fight against poitín (illegal whiskey) as well as the development of locking devices for stills and the successful reform of the Irish and Scottish excise legislation in 1823. This legislation replaced the deeply flawed Irish regime of 1779 which had incentivised excessively rapid distillation at the expense of the quality of the product, the accuracy of excise duties imposed and an enormous increase in poit í n-making. The new regime of 1823 offered distillers much greater freedom to decide how and how fast to distil. It also facilitated Coffey’s move from the excise service into his new career as a distiller, in the course of which he invented his famous continuous still. The episodes recounted in the chapter highlight the vital importance of good tax design and the consequences of getting it wrong. They also show Coffey in a sympathetic light as a person with exceptional skill in taking good ideas and making them work in practice, not only as an inventor but as an administrator and law reformer.   See further https://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/studies-in-the-history-of-tax-law-volume-11-9781509963263/.

Keywords: tax, history, whiskey, excise, coffey

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

de Cogan, Dominic and de Cogan, Donard, Aeneas Coffey and the Role of Tax in the Emergence of Modern Whiskey in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (eds), Studies in the History of Tax Law Vol 11 (Oxford, Hart, 2023). (September 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5176723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5176723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Mcguire
, volume 19 Posted: 1823
Distillery , Account
Spirits. Accounts of the number of gallons of wash distilled in England, Scotland, and Ireland; and, of the number of gallons of spirits, at hydrometer proof, imported from Scotland and Ireland , p. 20 - 21 Posted: 1826-10-10
See Mcguire
Kullmann, above n 9, 80; B Townsend , The Lost Distilleries of Ireland , volume 19 Posted: 1997
Kerr
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
395
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies