Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Triple-Entry Accounting: Transcending the Double-Entry System

37 Pages Posted: 22 May 2025

Oyovwe Akajagbor

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Ofuan Ilaboya

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 20, 2024

Abstract

In corporate organizations, the maintenance of comprehensive financial records is an important aspect of organizational governance. The legal framework necessitates that such records are maintained employing the double-entry accounting system, which has stood as a foundation for financial record-keeping. However, contemporary accounting practices reveal an enduring susceptibility to errors, arising from unintentional omissions or deliberate misrepresentations, despite the rigorous regulatory frameworks in place. This study examines the origin of double-entry accounting, elucidating its concretization through the pioneering work of Luca Pacioli. This historical analysis illuminates its evolution and reaffirms its significance, particularly in response to the growing intricacies of business operations. In light of the burgeoning complexity engendered by the adoption of digital currencies in contemporary business environments, the continued efficacy of the double-entry accounting system has been called into question. This apprehension has precipitated a paradigm shift towards the conceptualization of a novel accounting framework-triple-entry accounting. This study reviews literature that has been done on tripleentry accounting from inception till date; dealing with issues surrounding the use of the double-entry system and how the triple-entry system helps to deal with the issues. In conclusion, the study advocates for a heightened exploration of the implications of blockchain technology and triple-entry accounting on the profession. It extends an invitation to the academic community to undertake comprehensive research endeavours in the domain of tripleentry accounting, thereby providing the requisite intellectual underpinning for its integration into the operations of decentralized autonomous organizations and conventional corporations. However, this calls for a collaboration between accounting practitioners, academia, and Information Technology (IT) practitioners working together to smoothly implement triple-entry accounting in Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAO) and regular corporations.

Keywords: Triple-entry accounting, Blockchain, double-entry accounting, transcend

Suggested Citation:

Akajagbor, Oyovwe and Ilaboya, Ofuan, Triple-Entry Accounting: Transcending the Double-Entry System (January 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5186737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5186737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
O Adum
Luca Pacioli's double-entry system of accounting: a critique Posted: 2015
S Aghili
The auditor's guide to blockchain technology: architecture, use cases, security and assurance Posted: 2023
D Appelbaum , D Showalter , T Sun , M Vasarhelyi
A framework for auditor data literacy: a normative position
Accounting Horizons Posted: 2020
O U Angus
Theories of accounting: evolution & developments, income-determination and diversities in use
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 5 , issue 19 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
RANK
672,864
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies