Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Introduction to the Special Issue on Perspectives on Carbon Accounting and Reporting (to be published in Foundations and Trends ® in Accounting)

9 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: March 23, 2025

Abstract

This special issue of Foundations and Trends® in Accounting presents perspectives on carbon accounting and reporting. According to Sangster (2016), traditional double-entry bookkeeping most likely emerged in the 13th century to enhance financial accountability. Similarly, double-entry carbon accounting is emerging in response to modern needs, particularly the need for emissions tracking in supply chains. The articles in this issue were contributed by leading academic and practitioner experts on carbon accounting. The authors highlight key challenges, including Scope 3 emission double counting, reliance on third-party estimates, the allocation of emissions to products, the importance of integrating carbon accounting with traditional financial and managerial accounting systems, and the need for standardized carbon reporting frameworks. Drawing on Hatfield's and Ijiri's work, this introduction argues that double entry's causal and accountability-focused nature make it well suited to driving corporate action on emissions reduction.

Keywords: Double-entry bookkeeping, Carbon accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Jonathan C., An Introduction to the Special Issue on Perspectives on Carbon Accounting and Reporting (to be published in Foundations and Trends ® in Accounting) (March 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5190369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5190369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
S Basu , G Waymire
The evolution of double-entry bookkeeping
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
H R Hatfield
An Historical Defense of Bookkeeping
Journal of Accountancy , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 253 Posted: 1924
Y Ijiri
Theory of Accounting Measurement Posted: 1975
Y Ijiri
On the accountability-based conceptual framework of accounting
Journal of accounting and public policy , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 81 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
663,174
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies