Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Accounting in the Informal Economy

84 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2025

Marcela Aguilar

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Gary Lind

University of Pittsburgh - Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business

K. Ramesh

Rice University

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

Using novel survey data from 1,400 firms in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, this study investigates the voluntary adoption of accounting systems by microenterprises operating in the informal economy and its implications for access to credit. We show that informal microentrepreneurs behave as rational economic agents, weighing costs and benefits when making decisions about formalization and accounting practices. Our findings suggest that the decision to remain informal is driven by perceived regulatory burdens, the absence of tangible benefits from formalization, and firm-level characteristics such as entrepreneurial motivation, socioeconomic status, and business scale. Despite the absence of regulatory mandates, 45% of informal microbusinesses voluntarily maintain systematic financial records, with approximately three- quarters using notebooks and one-quarter digital records. The quality of these accounting practices is closely linked to the owner’s motivation, personal financial investment, and management capabilities. Informal firms that offer customer credit or engage in marketing are also more likely to adopt structured recordkeeping systems, underscoring the use of accounting as a managerial tool rather than solely a compliance function or in anticipation of entering the formal economy. Furthermore, informal firms using notebooks that clearly separate business and personal accounts are significantly more likely to apply for and secure bank loans. Our inferences for access to credit also extend to microenterprises in the Dominican Republic. By illuminating the economic rationale behind both formalization and accounting choices in low-enforcement settings, this study deepens our understanding of the foundational role accounting plays in early-stage business development and financial inclusion in emerging markets.

Keywords: JEL Classification: G21, G32, L26, M13, M41, M48, O16, O17 Informal economy, developing economies, microenterprises, recordkeeping, accounting quality, financial inclusion, real effects, access to credit

Suggested Citation:

Aguilar, Marcela and Lind, Gary and Ramesh, K., The Role of Accounting in the Informal Economy (March 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5199563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5199563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
G A Aga , B Reilly
Access to credit and informality among micro and small enterprises in Ethiopia
International Review of Applied Economics , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 313 - 329 Posted: 2011
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial Overconfidence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately Held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
R Almeida , P Carneiro
Enforcement of Labor Regulation and Informality
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 64 - 89 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,094
RANK
355,843
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies