Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The unaccountability of tax devolution: A case study of business rates

15 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Dominic de Cogan

University of Cambridge, Faculty of Law

Penelope Tuck

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: December 08, 2021

Abstract

This is a pre-copyedited, author-produced version of an article accepted for publication in Public Law following peer review. The definitive published version ([2022] Public Law 38-54) is available online on Westlaw UK.


In this article, we examine business rates, the most deeply devolved of UK taxes, and show that the accountability arguments for rates devolution are weak. They are undermined by the economic incoherence of the tax, the complexity of devolved powers and the sometimes-extreme lack of transparency around the use of powers


Keywords: tax, tax law, rating, devolution, accountability, accounting

Suggested Citation:

de Cogan, Dominic and Tuck, Penelope, The unaccountability of tax devolution: A case study of business rates (December 08, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5237791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5237791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Mark Bovens , Thomas Schillemans , Robert E Goodin , Goodin Bovens , Schillemans
Public Accountability
The Oxford Handbook of Public Accountability Posted: 2014
Democratic Accountability and National Parliaments: Redefining the Impact of Parliamentary Scrutiny in EU Affairs' (2007) 13
citing Katrin Auel
Ellen Rock
Measuring Accountability in Public Governance Regimes , p. 18 - 20 Posted: 2020
Commission on Scottish Devolution, Serving Scotland Better: Scotland and the United Kingdom in the 21st
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
216
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies