Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judgment and Decision Making Accounting Research: A Quest to Improve the Production, Certification, and Use of Accounting Information

46 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2004

Natalia Kochetova

Saint Mary’s University - Sobey School of Business

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: May 2003

Abstract

This chapter reviews the judgment and decision making research (JDM) that involves the production, certification and use of accounting information. We first outline the domain of accounting information and the roles of professional accountants and other users of accounting information. We then provide a brief historical perspective on accounting JDM research. We describe the current impact of JDM accounting research on accounting research more generally in the period 1995-2002 via an analysis of JDM accounting publications in top accounting journals. We then turn to describing recent foci of JDM accounting research both quantitatively using the classifications in this Handbook and qualitatively by examining in some detail significant recent JDM accounting articles. We conclude with some observations about the future of JDM accounting research.

Keywords: Judgment and decision making, accounting, auditing

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kochetova, Natalia and Salterio, Steven E., Judgment and Decision Making Accounting Research: A Quest to Improve the Production, Certification, and Use of Accounting Information (May 2003). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=533422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.533422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
J C Anderson , M M Jennings , J D Lowe , P M J Reckers
The mitigation of hindsight bias in judges' evaluation of auditor decisions
Auditing: Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1997
U Anderson , L Koonce
Explanation as a method for evaluating clientsuggested causes in analytical procedures
Auditing: Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 132 Posted: 1995
V Arnold , S Sutton
Behavioral Accounting Research: foundations and frontiers Posted: 1997
R H Ashton
An experimental study of internal control judgments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 157 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,354
RANK
29,890
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies