Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Lobbying on Accounting Standards in the U.S., in the U.K. and at the IASC/IASB

78 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2025

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: June 15, 2025

Abstract

This article brings together in one place a discussion of 35 instances since the 1940s of the political lobbying of accounting standards in the United States, the United Kingdom, and at the International Accounting Standards Committee and Board. Political lobbying consists of actions, usually by financial statement preparers, trade associations, or government, to pressure the standard-setter not to issue a proposed standard, usually accompanied by explicit or implied threats or intimidation. The author provides elaborate accounts of the various instruments of pressure marshaled by the lobbyists to use against the standard-setter or regulator, or both. In recent decades, it has been increasingly common in the U.S. for the standard-setter’s fervent critics to appeal to members of Congress to bolster their attack. Typically, the alleged economic consequences of the proposed standard have been at the root of the lobbying.

Keywords: Political lobbying, accounting standards, FASB, UK GAAP, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., Political Lobbying on Accounting Standards in the U.S., in the U.K. and at the IASC/IASB (June 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5391331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5391331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
160 References
Political accounting: erosion of accounting board's authority threatens investors and creditors
Accounting Report Posted: 1995-03-20
Congressman Sherman and Congressman Campbell lead effort to stop new accounting rules for leases
E G See , Dena Aubin
Urge-FASB-Reconsider-Lease-Accounting-Changes-62744-1.html., and "Politicians against leasing project
Accounting Today , p. 10 - 11 Posted: 2012-05-22
Jonathan See , Weil
How leases play a shadowy role in accounting
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2004-09-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
347
RANK
724,701
160 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies