Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of Accounting at the University of Michigan: 1901 to 2024 

43 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2025

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 15, 2025

Abstract

This is a study of the historical evolution of accounting at the University of Michigan from 1901 to 2024, attending to the early accounting instructors as well as on the comings and goings of the professorial faculty from the 1920s onward. Attention is given to the roll of accounting Ph.D. graduates over the years and to the major achievements by both the faculty and the doctoral graduates. As Michigan's Ross School of Business has retained very few historical records, the primary source of the historical records for this paper was the university's course catalogues.

Keywords: University of Michigan, Ross School of Business, Accounting Faculty Contributions, Accounting Ph.D. Graduates’ Contributions

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., Evolution of Accounting at the University of Michigan: 1901 to 2024  (August 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5393949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5393949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
207 References
Both were leaders and innovators in the accounting group over many years. Danos remained until 1995, when he became dean of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Imhoff retired in 2012 after a tenure of 35 years. Other important arrivals and their periods of stay at Michigan were
H Robert , R Arnold ; George , Bruha , T James , James E Godfrey , C Wheeler ; Earl , Donald H Keller , L Skadden ; Gordon , James S Duke , Reece , W Michael , D Maher ; Richard , Robert Boley , ; Libby , K Robert , John R Mautz , Michael H Hanna , W Granof , L Todd John Brennan , Jerry L Johnson , John L Arnold , Richard P Kramer , Daniel G Weber , R D Short , Nair , James Bulloch , Andrew Mccosh , Robert Clarke
Robert Dixon retired in 1974. Hence, all who joined the faculty prior to the 1960s, other than Wilbur Pierpont, had left or retired by the end of the decade. Pierpont stepped down as vice president in 1977 and returned to active service on the accounting faculty for three years before retiring
Paton continued writing apace, including a new edition of his Asset Accounting, called Assets -Accounting and Administration, in 1971. The school graduated a further 20 Ph.D. candidates in accounting Posted: 1970
H Robert , Colson
Posted: 1980
Marlys Gascho , Lipe
Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
RANK
897,570
207 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies