Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting and the Economics of Internal Organisation: A Review Essay

Management Accounting Research, Vol 8, No 3, March 1998

Posted: 27 Jan 1998

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Abstract

This paper reviews two books by leading management accounting researchers which rely on advances in the economics of internal organisation for their theoretical foundation. The review relates the theoretical content of the two books to the broader research agendas of information economics and transaction costs economics. In addition, the review attempts to identify areas where alternative theoretical perspectives might be used to address the main weaknesses of models based on conventional notions of economic rationally.

JEL Classification: M40, M46, L22

Suggested Citation:

Walker, Martin, Management Accounting and the Economics of Internal Organisation: A Review Essay. Management Accounting Research, Vol 8, No 3, March 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=55204
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,661
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies