Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Positive Research in Accounting

University of Rochester Working Paper FR 95-01

Posted: 15 May 1995

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Abstract

This paper surveys the positive accounting research literature for a book of readings. It defines the nature and origins of positive research in accounting describes its contribution to practice and investigates reasons for the decline of normative theorizing in accounting. Relatively comprehensive surveys of capital markets research theory of the firm and political process-based research and behavioral science-based research are then presented. Finally future directions of the research are considered. The research surveys include both the empirical and modeling literatures.

JEL Classification: M41, M46, M49

Suggested Citation:

Watts, Ross L., Positive Research in Accounting. University of Rochester Working Paper FR 95-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=55470
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,237
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies