Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Living Profession of Shifting Paradigms: Accounting's Evolution, Conflicts, and Future Challenges

29 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

C.F. Chang

Sunway University

M.Y. Ng

Heriot Watt University

Date Written: December 28, 2024

Abstract

Accounting is an ancient practice dated back to prehistoric era. Conventional bookkeeping is certainly insufficient to keep up with the rapid development in business world. Both the accounting profession and regulators must jointly develop new measures to deal with the increasingly complex financial reporting environment. This article aims to recount the challenges faced by both the regulators and the regulated in five core issues persisted in the modern history of accounting. First, the impact of economic powerhouses on accounting practices. At one point, accountancy was predominantly self-regulated and led by professional bodies from few developed nations. The outcome of self-regulation was inevitably a standardsetting system driven by political interest and asserted influence. Second, internationalisation of accounting standards. Standard-setting had progressively migrated from jurisdictional approach to convergence of universal set of accounting standards. Such migration was seen as a challenge to the sovereignty of the converged. Third, the two conflicting accounting theories which sparked a hamster-wheel debate between "what is" and "what should be" in accounting. Fourth, the principles-versus rules-based standards. The former is gaining more traction due to convergence, but now a mixed approach is more preferred. Fifth, fair value-based and allinclusive accounting. These two modern accounting conventions are deemed more valuerelevant, but are also prone to misrepresentation.

Keywords: accounting history, standard-setting, normative, positive, rule based, principle based, fair value accounting, comprehensive income

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Chee Fei and Ng, May Yee, A Living Profession of Shifting Paradigms: Accounting's Evolution, Conflicts, and Future Challenges (December 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5606831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5606831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies