Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Be Careful What You Wish for: How Accountants and Congress Created the Problem of Auditor Independence

64 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2004

Seán M. O'Connor

George Mason University - Antonin Scalia Law School

Abstract

The independence of auditors from the publicly traded clients whose books they inspect is one of the most vexing problems in the financial world today. The effects of corporate fraud unchecked by the audit process are felt far outside Wall Street in the form of devastated retirement plans and lost jobs. Numerous attempts to fix this problem have failed. This article analyzes the history of auditing to argue that the imposition of a mandatory audit system through the federal securities laws created the problem of auditor independence. The laws' drafters erred in emulating select portions of the British Companies Acts, which was itself a comprehensive set of provisions for corporate and securities laws. Accountants advocated for the system as a way to elevate their profession to the status of other learned professions such as law or medicine. But in seeking this prestigious government franchise, the profession got more than it bargained for. It traded a lucrative premium service for a commodified cost of doing business, even while incurring an impossible obligation to an unspecified "investing public." At the same time, this investing public neither hires, fires, nor controls the auditors. Instead, the audit relationship is managed by the company being audited. The resultant conflict of interest has proven to be insurmountable even after multiple reform efforts. The author argues that the problem will only be resolved by returning to its origins in the 1930s federal securities laws and restructuring the role and relationships involved in public company audits. The article also gives extensive detail about the legal and business environment for public accountants and auditors before passage of the 1930s securities laws. This environment has been inadequately documented in the current legal scholarship. Thus, the article provides a valuable historical resource for those interested in reform of the audit system.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Accountants, Accounting, Audits, Arthur Andersen, Corporate Governance, Enron, Non-audit services, Securities regulation, Gatekeepers, Reputational intermediaries, Professional services, Commodification, Worldcom

JEL Classification: M49, G38

Suggested Citation:

O'Connor, Seán M., Be Careful What You Wish for: How Accountants and Congress Created the Problem of Auditor Independence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=587502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
See Act to amend
The Joint Stock Companies Act, 1856
See The Joint Stock Companies Amendment Act, 1858, 21 & 22 Vict Posted: 1858
See The Companies Act, 1862, 25 & 26 Vict Posted: 1862
First Part. The latter item provides an excellent listing of the prior acts amended or repealed by The Companies Act, 1862. Insurance companies were also required to register under and in accordance with the provisions of this law
Load more
2 Citations
Thomas Bourveau , Matthias Breuer , Jeroen Koenraadt , Robert Stoumbos
<div> Public Company Auditing Around the Securities Exchange Act: <span>Historical Lessons for ESG Assurance</span> </div>
Columbia Business School Research Paper · 79 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2021 · Last revised: 5 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 1,103
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gregory B. Waymire , Sudipta Basu
The Social Value of FASB
39 Pages · Posted: 16 Aug 2021 · Last revised: 2 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 343
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
817
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,664
RANK
69,090
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Way to Govern

By Shann Turnbull

The Science of Corporate Governance

By Shann Turnbull

Corporate Charters with Competitive Advantages

By Shann Turnbull

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies