Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time and the Dimensions of the Economic Accounting System: A Mereological Exploration

General Accounting Theory. Towards Balancing the Society, pp. 61-77, 2004

15 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2007

Eric Melse

Maastricht Accounting and Auditing Research and Education Center (MARC); CAREM

Abstract

This paper explores the need, purpose and possible implementation of momentum accounting as part of the accounting framework. We believe that accounting has positive effects on the financial and economic aspects of corporate and social life. Nevertheless, it has become necessary to include financial and economic measurements into the accounting framework as to meet the growing demand for more for-ward-looking information for decision-making purposes as well as for auditing and corporate governance. Including a momentum dimension into the system of accounts transcends accounting from a description of the financial position of a business entity to a more complete economic expression of its trajectory in time. Momentum ac-counting expresses a Newtonian space-time reality of economic entities. This paper considers a geometric solution of the problem of how to define the foundation of the accounting system. A particular logic - mereology - is applied that describes the so-called 'parts-whole relation' that we see foundational to economic accounting. We demonstrate that the three accounting dimensions, as identified by Ijiri, all are a temporal expression of a closed system of accounts that follows from the generality assumption (Lim) and the duality assumption (Mattessich) that is foundational to the measurement system of economic accounting. We conclude by noting that momentum accounting is applicable to corporate governance, auditing, financial accounting, management control & accounting and, possibly, social accounting.

Keywords: economic accounting, momentum accounting, force accounting, accounting dimensions, accounting time, mereology

JEL Classification: M21, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Melse, Eric, Time and the Dimensions of the Economic Accounting System: A Mereological Exploration. General Accounting Theory. Towards Balancing the Society, pp. 61-77, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=633763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Improving business reporting. A customer focus
AICPA Posted: 1994
T B Bell , F O Marrs , I Solomon , H Thomas
Auditing organizations through a strategicsystems lens. The KPMG business measurement process Posted: 1997
A M M Blommaert
Additional disclosure. Triple-entry en Momentum Accounting. Stenfert Kroese Posted: 1994
Crossref
A M M Blommaert
Additional disclosure triple-entry and momentum accounting
Accounting Review , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 580 - 581 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,490
RANK
187,977
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies