Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Map of Society: Defining Income in British, British-Colonial and American Tax Legislation

British Tax Review, Vol. 2005, p. 158, 2005

22 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2005 Last revised: 23 Feb 2012

Assaf Likhovski

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law

Abstract

This article provides a comparative history of the definition of income in British, British-colonial and American tax legislation from the eighteenth century to the early twentieth century. The article argues that the 200-year history of the legislative definition of income can be divided into three distinct stages. At each stage the definition of income was based on a paradigmatic source of income (land, trade/business, labour). The article also suggests that the definition of income at each of the stages reflected a certain conception of social hierarchy. The paradigmatic source at each stage was the item of income that was seen as typical of the class or group of people that dominated society. The definition of income was thus a social map, a map of who was included and who was excluded in certain societies at certain times.

Keywords: Tax, Tax History, Income, Definition of Income, Comparative Taxation, Legal History, Comparative Law

JEL Classification: B12, B19, H20, K34, N40

Suggested Citation:

Likhovski, Assaf, A Map of Society: Defining Income in British, British-Colonial and American Tax Legislation. British Tax Review, Vol. 2005, p. 158, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=679781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
BTR: No.1 SWEET & MAXWELL AND CONTRIBUTORS 2005
Crossref
Some Techniques of Taxation in the United Kingdom Posted: 1943
Crossref
J H N Pearce
The Rise and Development of the Concept of 'Total Income' in United Kingdom Income Tax Law
Yale Law Journal , volume 400 , p. 1842 - 1952 Posted: 2004-07
Crossref
An Act for Granting to His Majesty, until the Sixth Day of May Next after the Ratification of a Definitive Treaty of Peace, a Contribution on the Profits Arising from Property, Professions, Trades and Offices , volume 43
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,183
RANK
418,383
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies