Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Historical Perspective of the Accounting Environment: A General Outline of a Western European and North American Linkage

Academy of Accounting Historians Working Paper No. 50

31 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2005

Stanley C.W. Salvary

Canisius College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 1981

Abstract

It is recognized that the usefulness of accounting information is contingent upon its (1) neutrality, (2) relevancy, and (3) reliability. Given that all socio-economic systems are comprised of participants and institutions, it would seem that the attainment of those three qualities is conditioned by a proper determination of the institutional arrangement. The relationship of the members of society to existing institutions emerges as the pivotal consideration. Institutions are the creations of society, therefore, it seems fair to state that they reflect the evolutionary process. The institutional arrangement has evolved over time, and an understanding of the evolution is fundamental to achieving neutrality, relevancy, and reliability of accounting information. The roles of the many and varied institutions as intended upon their creation by society can provide the basis for establishing disclosure requirements. Such requirements entail a proper balancing of many factors as constrained by costs versus benefits in the information disseminating process. In this regard, historical research can provide a tremendous insight into institutions and institutional roles as they have evolved. Such insight can facilitate the complex balancing problem of financial reporting.

Keywords: The information disseminating process, institutional arrangements and their historical evolution, external financial reporting, adaptability, tractability, mobility, and shiftability, mercantilist philosophy, feudalism, manorial system, individual capitalism, joint stock company, industrialization

Suggested Citation:

Salvary, Stanley C.W., An Historical Perspective of the Accounting Environment: A General Outline of a Western European and North American Linkage (March 1981). Academy of Accounting Historians Working Paper No. 50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=689301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.689301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Armen A Alchian , Harold Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, Economic Organization
American Economic Review Posted: 1972-12
Crossref
W J Ashley
An Introduction to English Economic History and Theory: Part II The End of the Middle Ages. London; New York; Calcutta: Longmans, Green and Co Posted: 1912
T S Ashton
The Industrial Revolution 1760-1830. First Printing 1948. London; Oxford Posted: 1969
Pau1 A Baran , Paul M Sweezy
Monopoly Capital: An Essay on the American Economic and Social Order Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,762
RANK
328,705
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

On Financial Accounting Measurement: A Reconsideration of Sfac5 by the Fasb is Needed

By Stanley C.w. Salvary

The Accounting Variable and Stock Price Determination

By Stanley C.w. Salvary

Business Fluctuations and Financial Accounting Measurement: Historical Comments

By Stanley C.w. Salvary

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies