Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statements and Positive Accounting Theory. The Early Contribution of Aldo Amaduzzi

19 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2005

Andrea Melis

University of Cagliari

Date Written: September 1, 2005

Abstract

This paper examines some of the accounting ideas that were developed in 1949 by an Italian professor, Aldo Amaduzzi, with regards to positive accounting studies and the content of financial statements. The paper briefly reviews the aim, methodological assumptions and key findings of the so called positive accounting theory based on the works of Jensen (1976), Watts (1977) and Watts and Zimmerman (1978; 1986). The analysis of the early work of Amaduzzi on the contents of financial statements as the equilibrium outcome of a conflict of interests between corporate stakeholders shows that many of the methodological issues on accounting theory stressed by the so called Rochester school of accounting were raised by Amaduzzi (1949). The paper concludes that although some key differences between the Rochester school of accounting and Amaduzzi's thought do exist, the latter may be considered a forerunner of positive accounting theory.

Keywords: positive accounting theory, accounting history, financial statements, conflict of interests, Italy, stakeholder theory.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M21

Suggested Citation:

Melis, Andrea, Financial Statements and Positive Accounting Theory. The Early Contribution of Aldo Amaduzzi (September 1, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=695041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.695041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Amaduzzi
Conflitto ed equilibrio di interessi nel bilancio dell'impresa, Rivista Italiana di Ragioneria, XL, Luglio-Agosto-Settembre , p. 141 - 145 Posted: 1947
A Amaduzzi
Conflitto ed equilibrio di interessi nel bilancio dell'impresa Posted: 1949
A Amaduzzi
L'azienda nel suo sistema e nell'ordine delle sue rilevazioni Posted: 1953
A Amaduzzi
Economia degli impianti nelle imprese industriali Posted: 1957
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,929
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,395
RANK
6,256
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies