Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The End of Cost Allocations as We Know Them

10 Pages Posted: 26 May 2005

Marc Hodak

Hodak Value Advisors; New York University (NYU) - Markets, Ethics & Law (MEL) Program

Date Written: June 1997

Abstract

Cost allocations have befuddled managers around the world for over a century. The need for objective, actionable cost accounting data is frustrated not just by the difficult theoretical issues in distinguishing among various classes of cost, but also by informational asymmetries and agency conflicts between operating managers and corporate managers. Despite the obstacles, there are good reasons for allocating costs. Properly structured, cost allocations or other transfer pricing schemes can serve the same purposes as market prices, i.e., communicating useful information about the relative scarcity of resources within an organization, thereby helping to balance supply and demand for those resources. Most transfer pricing schemes, like Activity-Based Costing, attempt to solve the problem through costly refinement of "standard cost" measurement models.

This paper offers a contrasting model that begins with the recognition that post-hoc allocations inevitably involve subjective assignment of costs to activities, and that whatever objectivity can, in principle, be brought to bear on said assignments are undermined by internal incentives. The author offers, instead, transfer prices that arise from negotiations between two parties to an internal exchange under a particular set of decision rules reinforced by a performance measurement and reward system that gives both parties positive incentives to reveal their reservation prices for the goods or services being exchanged. For multiple parties, the author has created a simple, but sophisticated transfer auction process to facilitate investments in shared facilities or services that lead, prospectively, to efficient allocations of operating or capital costs.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, cost allocations, measurement, auctions, negotiation, incentives

JEL Classification: D23, D44, D45, D74, D82, D92, G31, L22

Suggested Citation:

Hodak, Marc and Hodak, Marc, The End of Cost Allocations as We Know Them (June 1997). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=728524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.728524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Jingjing Ding , Junyan Yang , qian liu
不对称信息下的高校内部资源分配与激励模型研究 — 以合肥工业大学研究生分配与助研费分析为例 (Research on the Model of Internal Resource Allocation and Incentives in Universities under Asymmetric Information — Taking Postgraduate Distribution and Research Assistant Fee System of Hefei University of Technology as an Example)
23 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,349
RANK
114,109
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies