Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconciling Efficient Markets with Behavioral Finance: The Adaptive Markets Hypothesis

Journal of Investment Consulting, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 25 May 2005

Andrew W. Lo

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The battle between proponents of the Efficient Markets Hypothesis and champions of behavioral finance has never been more pitched, and there is little consensus as to which side is winning or what the implications are for investment management and consulting. In this article, I review the case for and against the Efficient Markets Hypothesis, and describe a new framework - the Adaptive Markets Hypothesis - in which the traditional models of modern financial economics can co-exist alongside behavioral models in an intellectually consistent manner. Based on evolutionary principles, the Adaptive Markets Hypothesis implies that the degree of market efficiency is related to environmental factors characterizing market ecology such as the number of competitors in the market, the magnitude of profit opportunities available, and the adaptability of the market participants. Many of the examples that behavioralists cite as violations of rationality that are inconsistent with market efficiency - loss aversion, overconfidence, overreaction, mental accounting, and other behavioral biases - are, in fact, consistent with an evolutionary model of individuals adapting to a changing environment via simple heuristics. Despite the qualitative nature of this new paradigm, I show that the Adaptive Markets Hypothesis yields a number of surprisingly concrete applications for both investment managers and consultants.

Keywords: Efficient markets, behavioral finance, adaptive markets

JEL Classification: G10, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lo, Andrew W., Reconciling Efficient Markets with Behavioral Finance: The Adaptive Markets Hypothesis. Journal of Investment Consulting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=728864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
W Alvarez
Rex and the Crater of Doom Posted: 1997
E Andersen
Evolutionary Economics: Post-Schumpeterian Contributions Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Anderson , K Arrow , D Pines
The Economy as an Evolving Complex System Posted: 1988
A Ang , G Bekaert
How Regimes Affect Asset Allocation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 60 , p. 86 - 99 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12,434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
48,201
RANK
399
34 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Adaptive Markets Hypothesis: Market Efficiency from an Evolutionary Perspective

By Andrew W. Lo

On the Survival of Overconfident Traders in a Competitive Securities Market

By Guo Ying Luo and David Hirshleifer

Reconciling Efficient Markets with Behavioral Finance: The Adaptive Markets Hypothesis

By Andrew W. Lo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies