Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovations: Current Issues in Accounting for Derivatives

J. OF DERIVATIVES, Spring 1996

Posted: 20 Dec 1998

Jennifer N. Carpenter

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

Abstract

Although the Financial Accounting Standards Board has been developing standards for reporting and disclosing derivatives activity for many years, current guidelines are still neither comprehensive nor widely accepted. With regard to recognition of profit or loss from these instruments, the difficulty arises from the fact that some balance sheet items are marked to market, while others are measured at cost. This means that offsetting gains and losses in hedging relationships may be recognized in different reporting periods. Both existing and newly proposed accounting rules address this problem by allowing firms to defer certain derivatives gains and losses until offsetting gains and losses are realized.The problem remains that, because hedging relationships are often complex and dynamic, this approach can be effective only if firms have flexibility in deciding which gains and losses to defer. Yet that very flexibility makes financial statements difficult to interpret and creates the potential for income manipulation. One way to resolve this conflict would be to recognize all gains and losses as they occur, but this solution has always generated controversy. Is it too costly, or just too radical?The problem with regard to disclosure is that the important information about derivatives positions is often not their size and market value, but rather their impact on the probability distribution of future earnings, an aspect that is beyond the scope of traditional accounting. Rulemakers defend the lack of requirements for quantitative risk disclosure by citing the cost of obtaining relevant risk measures and a lack of agreement about them. Yet many derivatives dealers estimate and track quantitative measures of risk on a daily basis. If corporate managers are unable to quantify the risks associated with their derivatives positions, is it prudent for them to expose shareholders to those risks?

JEL Classification: G13, G32, M4

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Jennifer N., Innovations: Current Issues in Accounting for Derivatives. J. OF DERIVATIVES, Spring 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=7296
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies