Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivation and the Lost Tribe: On the Importance of Accounting Technology Professionals' (Atps) Motivations

29 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2005

Dan N. Stone

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2005

Abstract

Existing research assumes but does not investigate accounting technology professionals' (ATPs) motivation. ATPs motivations matter because of the instability and ubiquity of accounting technologies, and, ATPs boundary spanning role between accounting artifacts and computing technologies. Positivist and critical theory research make strong assumptions about, but leave largely uninvestigated, ATPs motivations. Self-determination theory (SDT), which originates in humanistic psychology, offers an unexplored alternative theory of ATP motivation. SDT suggests a set of propositions for proactively engaging ATPs in self-motivated, socially meaningful activities that enhance ATPs well-being, and, for rethinking accounting education towards a more proactive role in attracting and engaging socially aware, ethically responsible ATPs.

Keywords: Motivation, Accounting technology, Self-determination, accounting professionals

JEL Classification: J44, M40, M14

Suggested Citation:

Stone, Dan N., Motivation and the Lost Tribe: On the Importance of Accounting Technology Professionals' (Atps) Motivations (July 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=758525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.758525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E D Almer , S E Kaplan
The Effects of Flexible Work Arrangements on Stressors, Burnout, and Behavioral Job Outcomes in Public Accounting , volume 14 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Information Technology Community (website Posted: 2004-04-20
Crossref
T Anderson
Toward a Theory of Online Learning Posted: 2004-04-20
R Antle , J S Demski
The Controllability Principle in Responsibility Accounting
The Accounting Research , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 707 - 718 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,876
RANK
314,322
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of E-Commerce Announcements on the Market Value of Firms

By Mani Subramani and Eric Walden

The Economic Worth of Celebrity Endorsers: An Event Study Analysis

By Jagdish Agrawal and Wagner A. Kamakura

Returns on Investments in Information Technology: A Research Synthesis

By Bruce Dehning and Vernon J. Richardson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies