Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finance Theory and Accounting Fraud: Fantastic Futures Versus Conservative Histories

Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 53, 2005

Boston College Law School Research Paper No. 78

20 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2005

Lawrence A. Cunningham

University of Delaware; George Washington University - Law School

Abstract

Intellectual tension between the fields of finance and accounting may help to explain explosion of public company frauds. Finance theory diminishes the relevance of accounting information. Enron exploited this consequence while the SEC bought into it. After widespread frauds were exposed, Congress passed laws that address symptoms of finance's futurism, not disease. Laws essentially prohibit pro forma financial reporting and regulate the selective flow of futuristic information to financial analysts. Untouched is the underlying disease of regulatory mandates requiring extensive disclosure of forward-looking information.

Until the 1970s, the SEC prudently prohibited such futuristic disclosure as inherently unreliable; assisted by finance theory, the SEC's stance steadily eroded to require such disclosure. The SEC likely had it right the first time. It is too late to reverse the mandatory futuristic disclosure regime. So reform policies must work within it. After elaborating the foregoing critique, this Essay mentions two: (1) future oriented disclosure should focus on material risks of future adversity and (2) accounting figures should be reported in ranges, not single amounts.

Keywords: pro form financial reporting, analyst earnings forecast, forward-looking disclosure, financial fraud, efficient market hypothesis, accrual system, reforms

JEL Classification: M1, M43, M44, M45

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lawrence A., Finance Theory and Accounting Fraud: Fantastic Futures Versus Conservative Histories. Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 53, 2005, Boston College Law School Research Paper No. 78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=775825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
); see also Erik D. Prohs, Note, Periodic Reporting: A Relic of the Past?
Requirement for Publicly Traded Corporations: Are We There Yet?, 20 CARDOZO L REV Posted: 1998
Sarbanes-Oxley
107-204, 116 Stat. at ___ ; 15 , p. 78 - 84 Posted: 2002
Louis D Brandeis , Other People&apos;s Money , How , Bankers , It
Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants; electric light the most efficient policeman Posted: 1914
See Vernon , J Richardson &amp; Susan , W Scholz
Numerous conferences on the concept of continuous auditing have been staged in recent years
Corporate Reporting and the Internet: Vision, Reality, and Intervening Obstacles, 11 PACIFIC ACCOUNTING REVIEW Posted: 1999-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,355
RANK
35,290
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies