Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Reform in Armenia

20 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2005

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 2005

Abstract

This paper describes and summarizes the USAID Accounting Reform Project in Armenia. After a brief introduction that discusses the history and culture of Armenia, the paper goes into a discussion of the major aspects of accounting reform, which included assisting the Finance Ministry adopt and implement International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Standards on Auditing (ISA), translating accounting materials into Armenian and Russian, upgrading the accounting curriculum at all the major universities and institutes, facilitating the growth of a private sector accounting association, assisting in the development of continuing professional education programs (CPE) for practitioners and helping to establish an accounting certification program. The author was employed by a private consulting firm that had the USAID accounting reform contract for Armenia.

Keywords: Accounting reform, Armenia, Caucasus, certification, IAS, IFRS, education, financial reporting, training

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, M49, I21, J44, M53, O19

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Accounting Reform in Armenia (September 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=813385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.813385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
George A Bournoutian
Armenians and Russia, 1626-1796: A Documentary Record Posted: 2001
Cia
World Fact Book. www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook/ Dadrian, Vahakn N. 1995. The History of the Armenian Genocide: Ethnic Conflict from the Balkans to the Caucasus Posted: 2005
Mae Derdarian
Vergeen: A Survivor of the Armenian Genocide Posted: 1998
Adolf J H Enthoven , V Yaroslav , Svetlana M Sokolov , Valery V Bychkova , Maria V Kovalev , Semenova
Accounting, Auditing and Taxation in the Russian Federation. The IMA Foundation for Applied Research and the Center for International Accounting Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,534
RANK
223,632
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reforming Accounting Education in a Transition Economy: A Case Study of Armenia

By Robert W. Mcgee

The Investment Climate in Armenia: Some Legal, Economic and Ethical Issues

By Robert W. Mcgee

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies