Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rethinking the Influence of Agency Theory in the Accounting Academy

Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 17-30, 2006

26 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2005 Last revised: 27 Sep 2009

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Lori Holder-Webb

Western New England University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

The business press is showering criticism on business academics, citing failure in teaching relevant skills to students and a perceived increasing irrelevance of research streams. This criticism is echoed by some academics, who assert the need for serious consideration of the direction of the academy. This dialogue is especially salient for members of the accounting academy, who must train students to join a profession whose value rests on a foundation of ethical behavior and the public interest. It is also salient to the accounting research, which has informed the construction of intra-firm contracts and thus effected significant changes in the way firms are managed. In this essay, we examine and extend this body of criticism and explore its implications for accounting research and education. We discuss how our discipline has borrowed methodology freely from the physical sciences and how this importation has led to the adoption of excessively simplified economic theories. We also consider the self-fulfilling attribute of social science theories and how this has led to formulations of models of behavior, instantiation of those models in the business environment, and eventual conformity of manager behavior with the underlying assumptions of the models. We then examine agency theory in light of this dynamic and explore how the discipline-wide espousal of this theory may have led our accounting education system to unwittingly introduce and then normalize narrowly self-interested behavior. Finally, we suggest ways to improve accounting education that embrace multiple perspectives to prepare our students for act truly in the public interest.

Keywords: agency theory, models, methodology, models

JEL Classification: C49, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Holder-Webb, Lori, Rethinking the Influence of Agency Theory in the Accounting Academy. Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 17-30, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=814025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
P S Adler
Corporate scandals: It's time for reflection in business schools
Academy of Management Executive , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 148 - 149 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E D Almer , J L Higgs , K L Hooks
A theoretical framework of the relationship between public accounting firms and their auditors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , issue 17 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Code of professional conduct Posted: 2005-06-03
S Baiman
Agency research in managerial accounting: A second look. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 341 - 370 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,547
RANK
15,544
3 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

By Lawrence D. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies