Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Profession's Core Values: Connecting Our Past to Our Future

Research in Accounting Regulation, Vol. 18, 2005

Posted: 4 Nov 2005

Scott Voynich

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

During this conference we are celebrating the 10th Congress that brings together the most renowned accounting historians from throughout the globe. We are also celebrating another event further back in our history. This program began in St. Louis in order to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the first truly international gathering of accounting professionals.

What brought those individuals together in 1904 and what bring us together in 2004 is a shared sense of purpose and a belief in a set of core values that holds true now as it did then. These values hold whether the individual accounting professional works for a small firm, a large corporation, or any type of enterprise in between.

These core values of integrity, competence and objectivity are the time tested building blocks for what has been a truly successful and honored profession. They are the basis upon which our individual clients and employers come to see the unique value that a CPA brings to the effort at hand. They are the basis of any opportunities our profession has had to expand the range of services offered beyond traditional auditing and tax compliance work.

Over the course of its history, the AICPA developed the world's largest and most prestigious accounting library. Now brought together in one place are an extensive photograph collection and approximately 190 rare volumes documenting the history of accounting. Just as studying what the pioneers of the accounting profession believed and how they acted on those beliefs can serve each and every one of us today, future generations of the profession will surely look back at our beliefs and actions. If we hold true to our core values, even as we adapt to the ever-changing environment in which we practice, we can ensure that we can be looked upon as fondly as we look upon those who built our profession 100 years ago.

Keywords: Accounting History, Accounting Core Values, Accounting Professionalism

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Voynich, Scott, The Profession's Core Values: Connecting Our Past to Our Future. Research in Accounting Regulation, Vol. 18, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=831067
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,092
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies