Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting as Applied Ethics: Teaching a Discipline

ERIM Report Series Reference No. ERS-2005-065-ORG

14 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2006

W. Dolfsma

University of Groningen School of Economics and Business

Date Written: November 4, 2005

Abstract

In this article it is argued that there are notable parallels between all of the different strands within ethics on the one hand, and accountancy on the other that, in teaching, can be drawn upon to enhance students’ understanding of the latter. Accountancy, part of economics, draws on utilitarian ethics, but not solely so. Accounting, in addition, draws on deontological and communitarian strands in ethics. The article suggests that the teaching of accounting – especially to non-economists – would benefit substantially from highlighting and developing these parallels.

Keywords: Accounting, Communitarian Ethics, Deontology, Ethics, Teaching Accounting, Utilitarianism

Suggested Citation:

Dolfsma, Wilfred, Accounting as Applied Ethics: Teaching a Discipline (November 4, 2005). ERIM Report Series Reference No. ERS-2005-065-ORG, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=842365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Aristotle
The Nicomachean Ethics Posted: 1980
Justice and Economic Distribution Posted: 1991
W Baumol , &amp; R E Quandt
Rules of Thump and Optimally Imperfect Decisions
American Economic Review , volume 71 , p. 23 - 46 Posted: 1964
T S Beauchamp
Philosophical Ethics Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
729
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,237
RANK
80,369
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

On the Mechanics of Economic Development

By Robert E. Lucas

Learning, Institutions, and Economic Performance

By C. Mantzavinos, Douglass C. North, ...

Increasing Returns and New Developments in the Theory of Growth

By Paul M. Romer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies