Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture Creating Function of Accounting

GENERAL ACCOUNTING. THEORY TOWARDS BALANCING THE SOCIETY, Dobija M., Martin S., eds., Leon Kozminski Academy of Entrepreneurship and Management, Warsaw 2004

21 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2005 Last revised: 3 Aug 2009

Bartosz Kurek

Cracow University of Economics - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

Accounting is inevitably bound up to the culture creating process. The earliest evidence for this accounting function comes from the archive sources dating as early as 8000 years B.C. Research published by outstanding scholars show that since the ancient times accounting has been influencing the development of civilizations. Accountability of collective efforts of society is indispensable in order to fairly divide the resources among involved parties. Accountability was present in the culture creating process not only in the early rural economy, Mesopotamian state-towns, Mycenaean Age and coined-money times, but is also present now and needs still to grow. Accounting together with law, ownership and collective work are the building blocks of culture and civilization.

Keywords: account unit, cost of labour, accounting & culture

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kurek, Bartosz, Culture Creating Function of Accounting (2004). GENERAL ACCOUNTING. THEORY TOWARDS BALANCING THE SOCIETY, Dobija M., Martin S., eds., Leon Kozminski Academy of Entrepreneurship and Management, Warsaw 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=849249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
J R Alexander
History of Accounting", (Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States Posted: 2004-01-10
M Bielicki
Zapomniany świat Sumerów Posted: 1969
W Brzezin
Ogólna teoria rachunkowości Posted: 1995
E Burzym
Rachunkowość przedsiębiorstw i instytucji Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,832
RANK
117,265
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Money as an Intellectual Venture

By Mieczyslaw Dobija

Money as an Intellectual Venture

By Mieczyslaw Dobija

Wage, Money and Accounting: Theoretical Relationships

By Mieczyslaw Dobija

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies