Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Dances: How the First Accounting Degree in Canada Came to Be at the University of Saskatchewan

Canadian Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jan 2006

Nola Buhr

University of Saskatchewan

Glenn D. Feltham

University of Manitoba

Tracey Thompson Tremaine

University of Toronto

Abstract

This paper tells how the School of Accounting and the Bachelor of Science in Accounting degree were established at the University of Saskatchewan. Archives, various published histories and contemporaneous periodicals serve as the main sources of information. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Saskatchewan plays a key role in the history and it is evident that the establishment of the accounting program was critical for the legitimacy of both the University and the Institute. A claim is made in the paper that the University of Saskatchewan had the first school of accounting and the first accounting degree in Canada. A brief overview of the development of other business-oriented degrees and diplomas in universities across Canada is provided in order to support this claim. Based on the history provided and some additional contextual material, some speculation is offered as to why the University of Saskatchewan should be the first to offer an accounting degree instead of one of the older, more established universities in Eastern Canada. The paper makes three contributions. First, it fills a void in the literature with regard to the history of the School of Accounting and the accounting degree at the University of Saskatchewan. Second, it provides a bird's-eye view of the establishment of business education programs at other universities in Canada. Third, it adds to our understanding of the relationship between the accounting profession and academe as the paper demonstrates how people and institutions align to create new educational mechanisms.

Keywords: University of Saskatchewan, School of Accounting, accounting degree, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Saskatchewan

JEL Classification: M49, M47, A20

Suggested Citation:

Buhr, Nola and Feltham, Glenn D. and Tremaine, Tracey Thompson, Institutional Dances: How the First Accounting Degree in Canada Came to Be at the University of Saskatchewan. Canadian Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=877206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies