Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Information Economic Perspective on Experimental Research in Accounting

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Mar 2006

Laureen A. Maines

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting; PricewaterhouseCoopers

Geoffrey B. Sprinkle

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Gerald L. Salamon

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the role experimental research plays in developing accounting knowledge. We use as a framework for this examination an information economic perspective, positing that the general goal of accounting research is legitimate, consequential belief revision. We then evaluate how the characteristics of experimental research provide advantages and disadvantages in creating legitimate, consequential belief revision within the context of accounting issues. Throughout the paper, we provide guidance on how to design and implement experiments with the greatest potential to influence thought.

JEL Classification: C92, M40

Suggested Citation:

Maines, Laureen A. and Sprinkle, Geoffrey B. and Salamon, Gerald L., An Information Economic Perspective on Experimental Research in Accounting. Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=893556
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,191
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies