Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Once and Future Accountant: Ethics and the Future Outlook of the Us Accounting Profession

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, Vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 426-440, 2005

15 Pages Posted: 26 May 2006

Mark Hale

Blinn College

Ryan Huston

Texas A&M University

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

At the beginning of the 21st century, the ethical values of the U.S. accounting profession were tarnished by major corporate failures and questionable accounting practices. How has this affected the profession, specifically, the perceptions of current and future accountants? This research study examines perceptions regarding the trustworthiness and integrity of the accounting profession. Perceptions were obtained from accounting practitioners, accounting educators, and future practitioners (students). In addition, an historical overview of accounting, the function of auditing in the capital markets, and the regulation of auditing in the U.S. are briefly examined. Survey results indicate that, compared to accounting practitioners and educators, students are generally more concerned about events surrounding the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and feel a stronger need for changes to enhance confidence in the capital markets. Concerning the future of the accounting profession, significant differences of opinion exist among groups. Public accountants are the most optimistic about the future, followed by students, then faculty and industry accountants.

Keywords: ethics, public interest, accounting, auditing, accounting regulation.

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Hale, Mark and Huston, Ryan and Smith, Murphy, The Once and Future Accountant: Ethics and the Future Outlook of the Us Accounting Profession. International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, Vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 426-440, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=904409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2004-10-02
Crossref
D Flesher , T Flesher
Ivar Kreuger's contribution to US financial reporting
Accounting Review , p. 421 - 434 Posted: 1986-07
A C Littleton
Journal of accountancy revisited: social origins of modern accountancy
Journal of Accountancy , volume 156 , p. 100 - 105 Posted: 1933-10
B Melancon
Melancon says profession's mission is to shape an accounting culture for the future that surpasses, legacy of the past
Speech delivered to business and accounting professionals at Yale Club on 4th September , p. 5 - 8 Posted: 2002-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,774
RANK
15,156
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Fresh Look at Accounting Ethics (or Dr. Smith Goes to Washington)

By Murphy Smith

Application and Assessment of an Ethics Presentation for Accounting and Business Classes

By Murphy Smith, Katherine Taken Smith, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies