Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Fresh Look at Accounting Ethics (or Dr. Smith Goes to Washington)

Accounting Horizons, 17(1): 47-49, March 2003

4 Pages Posted: 31 May 2006 Last revised: 4 May 2014

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

This article (editorial) proposes actions to be taken by educators and practitioners in providing ethical direction to the accounting profession. In the wake of corporate scandals and a shaky stock market, Congress passed legislation that established a new board to oversee auditors of publicly traded companies and increased prison sentences for fraud. This article is based on the author's opening statement to the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, Friday, July 26, 2002. At the Congressional Hearing, Truett Cathy, founder of Chick-Fil-A, quoted Proverbs 22:1, which says: A good name is more desirable than great riches; to be esteemed is better than silver or gold. The truth is that living an honorable life really is more satisfying than fame and fortune. The accounting professional must be skilled at implementing moral judgments so that he or she can consider the welfare of those affected by his or her actions. The ultimate measure of success is not fame and fortune, but moral character and personal integrity. The leadership of the accounting profession has a responsibility to inculcate in practitioners and students ethical behavior and personal integrity. Rules and regulations of government cannot preserve a free and ethical society whose people lack integrity.

Keywords: ethics, accounting, public policy, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy, A Fresh Look at Accounting Ethics (or Dr. Smith Goes to Washington). Accounting Horizons, 17(1): 47-49, March 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=905142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,932
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,169
RANK
6,245
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Application and Assessment of an Ethics Presentation for Accounting and Business Classes

By Murphy Smith, Katherine Taken Smith, ...

The Once and Future Accountant: Ethics and the Future Outlook of the Us Accounting Profession

By Mark Hale, Ryan Huston, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies