Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Government in the Digital Age: Myths, Realities and Promises

Innovative Applications Of Information Technologies In Business And Management, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2008

Mircea Georgescu

Al. I. Cuza University

Abstract

E-government is about transforming the way government interacts with the governed. The process is neither quick nor simple. It requires a coherent strategy, beginning with an examination of the nation's political will, resources, regulatory environment, and ability of the population to make use of planned technologies. The success of e-government requires fundamentally changing how government works and how people view the ways in which government helps them.

The last five years has been a period of change in the e-Government agendas of many countries - with reorganisation and new strategy development commonplace. However, this change is broader than national level, with 2005 marking the end of the eEurope action plan and the launch of its successor i2010. Countries clearly face some tough challenges ahead in areas such as data sharing, personalisation of services, balancing efficiency with inclusion, and the effective management of huge ICT-enabled change programmes. It is a time of great change for national e-Government programmes worldwide and also those at supranational level.

Understood correctly, e-government utilizes technology to accomplish reform by fostering transparency, eliminating distance and other divides, and empowering people to participate in the political processes that affect their lives. Governments have different strategies to build e-government. Some have created comprehensive long-term plans. Others have opted to identify just a few key areas as the focus of early projects. In all cases, however, the countries identified as most successful have begun with smaller projects in phases on which to build a structure.

Research suggests that there is large potential for e-governance, creating a channel that would bring the government closer to citizens by increasing the speed and efficiency of their interactions. In order for e-government to reach its full potential, there are several barriers it must overcome.

Keywords: e-government, e-administration, open standards, e-trust, e-privacy, auditing e-government

JEL Classification: F02, G28, G38, H10, H11, L84, L86, M14

Suggested Citation:

Georgescu, Mircea, The Government in the Digital Age: Myths, Realities and Promises. Innovative Applications Of Information Technologies In Business And Management, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=906587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Bonham , J Seifert , S Thorson
The Transformational Potential of eGovernment: The Role of Political Leadership at the 4th Pan European International Relations Conference of the European Consortium for Political Research Posted: 2001
Allen Booz , Hamilton
Beyond E-Government -The world`s most successful technology -enabled transformations, INSEAD, The Business School for the World Posted: 2005
Cabinet Office Posted: 2001
Crossref
Cdt&amp;infodev
E-Government Handbook Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,840
RANK
225,977
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies