Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Narratives of the Modern Corporation

Journal of Economic Geography, Vol. 1, Issue 2, pp. 181-199, 2001

Posted: 29 Feb 2008

Phillip O`Neill

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 2001

Abstract

This paper is about the ways that financial narratives are used by corporations to drive organizational change. Analysis of financial practices within BHP Ltd, a large Australian resources company, is used to trace the development of new management strategies, how they have been propelled by financial tactics and tools and how specific investment outcomes have been valorized to the exclusion of others. The second section of the paper focuses on the role of the logics of finance and accounting in general and the ways particular corporate accumulation and distributional outcomes are produced. The section draws heavily on insights into accounting representations of the firm in the work of Anthony Hopwood and his peers centred on the journal Accounting, Organizations and Society. The third section discusses possibilities for alternate distributional outcomes which might arise from different stakeholder participation in the governance and operation of large firms.

Keywords: financial narratives, corporations, management, strategy, accumulation, distribution

Suggested Citation:

O`Neill, Phillip, Financial Narratives of the Modern Corporation (April 2001). Journal of Economic Geography, Vol. 1, Issue 2, pp. 181-199, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=916794
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies