Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Edwin R.A. Seligman and the Beginnings of the U.S. Income Tax

Tax Notes, p. 933, November 14, 2005

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 56

19 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2006 Last revised: 20 Jun 2013

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Abstract

In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, a group of political economists led the conceptual campaign for a fundamental transformation in the American system of public finance. Responding to the social and political conditions of their times, these public finance economists helped build a new fiscal state - one that was concerned not only about raising revenue, but also about the equitable distribution of fiscal obligations. One of the chief visionaries or architects of this new fiscal order was the Columbia University professor, Edwin R.A. Seligman.

This article focuses on how Seligman and his like-minded colleagues were able to apply their social and political theories to the development of American tax laws and policies. More specifically, this article contends that academics like Seligman played a pivotal role in supplanting the "benefits theory" of taxation with a more equitable principle of taxation based on one's "faculty" or "ability to pay." Using Seligman as a prism for understanding the spirit of the times, this article explores Seligman's personal background, his ideas, and his influence on the development of American tax laws and policies.

Keywords: Tax policy, U.S. history, history of economic thought, history of legal thought

JEL Classification: B15, K34, N41

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., Edwin R.A. Seligman and the Beginnings of the U.S. Income Tax. Tax Notes, p. 933, November 14, 2005, Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=925011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Rader
The Academic Mind and Reform, ch. 6; Furner, supra note 9
C Henry , Adams
Science of Finance: An Investigation of Public Expenditures and Public Revenues Posted: 1898
Seligman
The Theory of Progressive Taxation
Political Science Quarterly , volume 220 , issue 8 Posted: 1893
Crossref
Seligman
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,603
RANK
184,656
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies