Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Before Accounting Scandals

Forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance, 2015

57 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2008 Last revised: 2 Sep 2015

Anup Agrawal

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Tommy Cooper

University of Alabama - Department of Economics, Finance and Legal Studies

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

We examine insider trading in a sample of more than 500 firms involved in accounting scandals revealed by earnings-decreasing restatements, and in a control sample of non-restating firms. Managers who sell stock while earnings are misstated potentially commit two crimes, earnings manipulation and insider trading, and their selling increases investor scrutiny and the likelihood of the manipulation being revealed. We examine the purchases, sales and net sales of five groups of corporate insiders during the misstated period and a pre-misstated period, using a difference-in-differences approach. Using several measures of the level of insider trading, we estimate cross-sectional regressions that control for other determinants of the level of insider trading. For the full sample of restating firms, we find weak evidence that top managers of misstating firms sell more stock during the misstated period than during the pre-misstated period, relative to the control sample. But in a number of subsamples where insiders had greater incentives to sell before the revelation of accounting problems, we find strong evidence that top managers of restating firms sell substantially more stock during the misstated period. These findings suggest that managers’ desire to sell their stockholdings at inflated prices is a motive for earnings manipulation. Our finding that insiders brazenly trade on a crime for which they are potentially culpable suggests that insider trading is more widespread in the market than has been found in the prior literature.

Keywords: Insider trading, Earnings manipulation, Accounting scandals, Financial restatements, Earnings restatements, Corporate crime

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M43

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Anup and Cooper, Tommy, Insider Trading Before Accounting Scandals (July 1, 2015). Forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=929413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.929413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Messod D Beneish , E Mark , Vargus ; Goldman , Steve L Eitan , Slezak
An equilibrium model of incentive contracts in the presence of information manipulation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 603 - 626 Posted: 2002
Paul A Gompers , Joy Ishii , Andrew Metrick
Corporate governance and equity prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 107 - 55 Posted: 2003
Crossref
William H Greene
Econometric Analysis Posted: 2003
Paul A Griffin
A league of their own? Financial analysts' responses to restatements and corrective disclosures
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 18 , p. 479 - 518 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,664
RANK
14,334
34 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies