Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Financial Literacy: What Might it Mean and Why Bother?

Networks Financial Institute Policy Brief No. 2006-PB-17

23 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2006

Roman L. Weil

University of Chicago - Chookaszian Accounting Research Center; Princeton University, Dept of Economics; UC San Diego Rady School of Management

Douglas J. Coates

Independent

M. Laurentius Marais

William E. Wecker Associates, Inc.

Date Written: November 2006

Abstract

We review the history of financial literacy, as it applies to public company audit committees; we report on a financial literacy quiz that we have given to over 1,400 members of corporate boards, not all audit committee members. We develop a classification to score the potential of corporate audit committees to be financially literate, as defined in this paper, based on listing requirements of the NYSE, as promulgated late in 1999. We score audit committees of approximately 300 large companies in 2000 and 2004, and of a subsample in 1996 as well. We find that scores did not change between 1996 and 2000, but have improved significantly since. Still, the audit committees have room for improved financial literacy in the sense that we define. We also find evidence of superior stock market returns to companies who have improved the potential for financial literacy, as we measure it, of their audit committees over the last four years. The improvers in our sample enjoyed annualized abnormal, excess returns of 4.6 percent per year more than those which did not improve.

Keywords: Financial literacy, corporate governance, audit committee

JEL Classification: G12, G34, G38, M49

Suggested Citation:

Weil, Roman L. and Coates, Douglas J. and Marais, M. Laurentius, Audit Committee Financial Literacy: What Might it Mean and Why Bother? (November 2006). Networks Financial Institute Policy Brief No. 2006-PB-17 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=947892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.947892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Lawrence A Cunningham
A New Product for the State Corporation Law Market: Audit Committee Certifications
Berkeley Business Law Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2004
Wallace N Davidson , Iii , Biao Xie , Weihong Xu
Market Reaction to Voluntary Announcements of Audit Committee Appointments: The Effect of Financial Expertise Posted: 2004
Crossref
Mark DeFond , Rebecca N. Hann , Xuesong Hu
Does the Market Value Financial Expertise on Audit Committees of Boards of Directors?
Pages: 45 Posted: 11 Feb 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David B. Farber
Restoring Trust after Fraud: Does Corporate Governance Matter?
Pages: 43 Posted: 30 Jun 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
760
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,110
RANK
76,111
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies