Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Research from the Globalization Perspective

14 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2006 Last revised: 8 Nov 2010

Paul Diaconu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies; Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Nicoleta Coman

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: November 2006

Abstract

This paper explores the idea of globalisation and considers accounting's role in that process in order to develop new spaces for accounting research. That's why in this paper we are looking for questions not necessary for answers. Adopting an 'alternative' view of accounting it's related to the fact that we sees accounting as social and evolutionist process, that pays heed to those voices arguing for greater social and environmental justice, and that draws attention to the role of accounting researchers in the process of globalisation. The paper defines globalisation and expands the globalisation and accounting research agenda introducing in this context the harmonization process in accounting. There are the two main systems which are disputing the first stage of being the benchmark: GAAP and IFRS. Each of them has his pluses and minuses on being the selected one. Due to this fact a convergence of the two, joining the advantages and disadvantages of the two should be the solution for an unique international accounting solution. Is this idea realizable, what steps has been made until now, what should be done in the future. The paper is emphasising the role of the cultural differences in the process of imposing of an unique international accounting system by the global organizations.

Keywords: investors, capital markets, international accounting, harmonization, globalisation

JEL Classification: M41,M44, M47, O10, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Diaconu, Paul and Diaconu, Paul and Coman, Nicoleta, Accounting Research from the Globalization Perspective (November 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=949431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.949431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Anderson
The Globalization GAAP
Management Accounting , p. 52 - 54 Posted: 1993-08
A R Belkaoui
International and Multinational Accounting Posted: 1994
Lee Berton
The Evolution of Research on International Accounting Harmonization
Journal of Accounting Literature Posted: 2000
F D S Choi , G G Mueller
An Introduction to Multinational Accounting Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,017
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,273
RANK
51,162
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Foreign Direct Investors in Three Financial Crises

By Robert E. Lipsey

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies