Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Japanese Issues and Perspective on the Convergence of International Accounting Standards

Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, April 2005

36 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2006

Mitsuru Misawa

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Abstract

Since the Japanese accounting method is a unique one of its own, Japanese companies trying to finance overseas are expected to be requested to disclose their performances based on the foreign countries' standards, or to disclose the tables for adjusting differences with these standards. It will be a major handicap for those Japanese companies as they will have difficulty in efficiently raising funds in the overseas markets.

In consideration of these problems, it is a correct direction to change the Japanese accounting standards to international standards. However, the Japanese accounting standards were not built overnight but rather are backed by a long history and are deeply entangled with other regulations. There are other factors such as differences of culture and sense of values. In order to adopt the International Accounting Standards, reviews of other related laws such as the Commercial Law, the Securities Exchange Law and the Tax Law would become necessary.

Consequently, a quick adoption of the International Accounting Standard is less likely to occur; it will most likely occur rather slowly. It is also a problem to be considered and solved in the overall process of total internationalization of the system of the Japanese economy. Although the Japanese effort of converging international with its domestic accounting standards is essential in the long run, Japan will have to take a position on the short term basis that each country should adopt a "mutual approval" policy as long as the accounting standards of the respective countries are equivalent. This is a realistic measure for Japan for the time being.

Keywords: Japan, Japanese Law, Convergence of International Accounting Standards, Issues on Convergence of Accounting

JEL Classification: K12, F42, F34, K22, M41, K23, K42, K33

Suggested Citation:

Misawa, Mitsuru, The Japanese Issues and Perspective on the Convergence of International Accounting Standards. Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, April 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=952806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,799
RANK
99,786
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Stock Prices Reflect the Corporate Governance Quality of Japanese Firms?

By Hiroyuki Aman and Pascal Nguyen

Do Stock Prices Reflect the Corporate Governance Quality of Japanese Firms?

By Hiroyuki Aman and Pascal Nguyen

The Valuation of R&D Expenditures in Japan

By Pascal Nguyen, Sophie Nivoix, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies