Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC Rules Historical Cost Accounting: 1934 to the 1970s

24 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2007

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 2007

Abstract

From its founding in 1934 until the early 1970s, the SEC and especially its Chief Accountant disapproved of most upward revaluations in property, plant and equipment as well as depreciation charges based on such revaluations. This article is a historical study of the evolution of the SEC's policy on such upward revaluations. It includes episodes when the private-sector body that established accounting principles sought to gain a degree of acceptance for them and was usually rebuffed. In the decade of the 1970s, the SEC altered its policy. Throughout the article, the author endeavors to explain the factors that influenced the positions taken by the parties.

Keywords: SEC, historical cost, current cost, revaluations

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G38, N42

Suggested Citation:

Zeff, Stephen A., The SEC Rules Historical Cost Accounting: 1934 to the 1970s (January 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=956163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.956163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Status of Accounting Research Bulletins Posted: 1965
Crossref
Financial statement restated for general price-level changes
Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1969
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Co
Memorandum on Price-Level Depreciation Posted: 1959
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Co
Accounting and Reporting Problems of the Accounting Profession Posted: 1969
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,369
RANK
31,038
10 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies