Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Resource Accounting - A New Dimension

Canadian Accounting Association (CAAA) 2006 Annual Conference

18 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2007

Dr. Amitabh Deo Kodwani

Indian Institute of Management (IIM) rohtak; Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad

Ravindra Tiwari

Independent

Date Written: January 15, 2007

Abstract

Human resource accounting (HRA) is an attempt to identify, quantify and report investment made in Human resources of an organization that are not presently accounted for under conventional accounting practice. Businesses which require a considerable creativity or are science-based show a significant difference between market value and net book value. This difference is for intangible assets (including human skills). However the Human Resources are yet to get recognition in Balance Sheet. Businesses are not properly accounting for it in Books of Accounts. Auditor certifies in his report that balance sheet shows true position of business in spite of the fact that it is not showing the value of human resources. Researches in this field have been slow and researchers are not able to develop a model which are free from major limitations. Major limitation of existing models is that they are not able to identify two effects on Human Capital creation which is back bone of accounting. In this article I have discussed efforts done in this field by researchers and proposed a model for valuation and accounting of Human resources. This proposed model is not altogether new model but it is an extension of Lev and Schwartz Model (L&S) because at one point it uses Lev & Schwartz Valuation principles. It also remove major weakness of L&S model such as it is able to account for Human Resource in balance-sheet. This model also encourages employee to achieve high level of performance.

Keywords: Models for Human Resource Accounting, Performance Improvement, Human Resource Management, Human Resources, Accounting for Human Resources, Modern Accounting Concepts

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G12, M12, J24

Suggested Citation:

Kodwani, Amitabh Deo and Tiwari, Ravindra, Human Resource Accounting - A New Dimension (January 15, 2007). Canadian Accounting Association (CAAA) 2006 Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=961570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.961570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Frederiksen Jens , V Westphalen Sven Age
Human resource accounting: interests and conflicts
Cedefop Panorama,A discussion paper Prepared on behalf of CEDEFOP -European Center for the Development of Vocational Training Posted: 1998
Jasrotia Punita
The need for human resource accounting Posted: 2002
ICAI Chartered Accountancy Course Material , p. 6 - 26 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Appelbau Steven , H Hood , Jamie
Accounting for the Firm's Human Resources
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 8 , issue 2 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,481
RANK
2,573
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies