Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Financial Reporting in Norway 1965-2004

49 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2007 Last revised: 23 Jun 2010

Oystein Gjerde

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Kjell Henry Knivsflå

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Frode Saettem

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Date Written: June 23, 2010

Abstract

We test the value relevance of financial statements in Norway over the 40 years before IFRS were introduced. An improved association between financial reporting and value creation enhances decision making and control. We find that the time trend of overall value relevance has increased significantly after controlling for changes in economic value relevance drivers. Neither the value relevance of the balance sheet nor the income statement has declined over time. The latter is surprising compared to previous studies, particularly on U.S. data. The most significant event is the Accounting Act of 1998. The contributions of other major accounting events are typically found to be positive, although their significance is less evident. Most importantly, our results suggest that performance accounting based on the matching principle is not necessarily in conflict with highly value relevant financial reporting.

Keywords: Value relevance, accounting regulation, Norwegian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

Suggested Citation:

Gjerde, Oystein and Knivsflå, Kjell Henry and Sættem, Frode, The Value Relevance of Financial Reporting in Norway 1965-2004 (June 23, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=962051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.962051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (Possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth
Standard-Setting Measurement Issues and the Relevance of Research. Accounting and Business Research , p. 7 - 15 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,811
RANK
116,469
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies