Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Accounting Journals

Posted: 22 Feb 2007

Geert Van Campenhout

KU Leuven - FEB@HUBrussel

Tom Van Caneghem

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB); University of Antwerp - Faculty of Applied Economics

Steve Van Uytbergen

Lessius Hogeschool

Date Written: February 2007

Abstract

We examine a citation-based structural influence measure for a sample of 41 accounting journals. We also determine the journals' span of influence in the accounting discipline. Next, based on observed citation patterns, we identify sub-areas in the accounting literature using both hard and soft partitioning clustering techniques. Finally, we explore journal influence in these sub-areas. Results confirm the composition of the top-four of journals in the accounting network. Journal of Accounting Research is the most influential accounting journal. While The Accounting Review and Journal of Accounting & Economics follow closely behind, the influence of Accounting, Organizations & Society is concentrated in only a couple of sub-areas and therefore more limited overall. Although sub-area influence scores are generally robust across clustering techniques, we show that they should be determined using a fuzzy procedure in a discipline like accounting that is characterized by a mixture of generally influential journals and specialized journals.

Keywords: journal quality, journal influence, accounting journals, citation analysis

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Van Campenhout, Geert and Van Caneghem, Tom and Van Uytbergen, Steve, The Influence of Accounting Journals (February 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=964618
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies