Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imagined Worlds of Accounting

11 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2007

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: February 1, 2007

Abstract

Science, engineering, and all other learned disciplines, as well as our socio-political-economic organizations are also artifacts because they are the results of our imagination. Modern corporation - a marvel of organizational engineering - would not be possible without imagination. To run organizations, in the face of the centrifugal forces of divergent self-interest and inherently dispersed information, we need accounting. Accounting, too, is an artifact that arose from human imagination, as a precursor of, or contemporaneously with, mathematics, writing and the civilization itself. We explore the case for imagination in our discipline with respect to its environment, scholarship and instruction. Specifically, accounting scholarship includes examination not only of the way things were and are, but also of how they might be. Why should we imagine alternate scenarios, instead of simply waiting for changes to occur, or being forced upon us? We must do so, because imagination is necessary to bring about innovation in practice and in institutions, so our children might live in a better world.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Imagined Worlds of Accounting (February 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=964702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.964702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Freeman J Dyson
Imagined Worlds , p. 140 - 141 Posted: 1997
George Shaw , Bernard
Dodd, Mead & Company. The serpent says these words to Eve , volume 2 Posted: 1949
Herbert A Simon
The Sciences of the Artificial Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
355,843
2 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies