Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Buyback Boom - The Next Step for Options and Equity Expensing

32 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2007

M. A. Gumport

MG Holdings/SIP

Date Written: March 13, 2007

Abstract

Stock buybacks boomed in the first years of the 21st century even while their returns trended towards 0%. Unlike dividends, which can never be mispriced and treat all shareholders equally, buybacks can be "good" (when shares are underpriced) or "bad" (when shares are overpriced) and may systematically favor one group of shareholders over another. "Bad buybacks" are now estimated to generate over $10 billion annually in excess costs borne largely by public (non-management) shareholders. Various works have identified options as a stimulant to the use (and misuse) of buybacks. This essay goes the additional step of suggesting that equity accounting has accelerated the boom.

Whether options should be expensed was extensively debated before SFAS 123R was adopted in 2004, and focus then shifted to the merits of competing valuation models. But, in all the sound and fury, either exhausted by the initial debate or mesmerized by the subsequent models, accounting authorities neglected to rest the mechanism for option expense recognition on the most elemental foundation: The actual value of an option grant.

Eventually, an option is worth something or nothing. However, in a practice peculiar to option compensation recognition, estimated and actual expense remain unreconciled. Though submitted to the IRS for a tax credit, the expense otherwise is neither recorded nor reported.

Other equity transactions, most notably stock buybacks, are unique in being excluded from income reports.

Opposition to accounting changes may be intense, but correctly recording and reporting equity transactions would likely encourage dividend payouts and return stock buybacks to a more appropriate role as a tool to capitalize on undervaluation. Accounting for options is so off base that a change in policy seems reasonably likely within a relatively short time (more than two years, less than a decade). The timeframe for a review of equity accounting for buybacks may be longer since buyback accounting does not currently appear to be a subject of great interest.

Keywords: sfas 123r, stock buyback, share buyback, equity accounting, options, options accounting

Suggested Citation:

Gumport, Michael A., Accounting for the Buyback Boom - The Next Step for Options and Equity Expensing (March 13, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=970597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.970597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
/13/07 Rev. 1 (working draft) Corporate Advisors Summit, NJ Tel , p. 908 - 273
Crossref
Email: magumport@att.net Web
Crossref
/13/07 Rev. 1 (working draft) Corporate Advisors Summit, NJ Tel , p. 908 - 273
Crossref
Email: magumport@att.net Web
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,227
RANK
191,613
4 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies