Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Assessment of the Rise and Fall of Accounting as an Academic Discipline

48 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2007

Timothy J. Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Garen Markarian

HEC - University of Lausanne

Date Written: November 2006

Abstract

The history of accounting as an academic discipline is a short one. Although the study of accounting in institutions of higher education is roughly coextensive with the rise of the business school, the need for a dedicated group of full-time faculty in this area is not as well-established as other business disciplines. The paper pertains to the recent trajectory of the accounting professoriate. Disciplinary success should be evidenced by the broader recognition of importance, high demand for its work, and the numerical increase of its practitioners. Although the value and importance of accounting is a maintained hypothesis within the field, how accepted this idea is in the business school is an empirical question. This paper illustrates the number and distribution of accounting faculty over a twenty-year period through the consideration of a number of specific research questions. The results show that after a decade-long increase, the number of the full-time accountancy faculty in the USA in the last decade has declined. This decline is not uniform, but instead is patterned in ways that raise further doubts about the future of the discipline.

Keywords: accounting education, accounting doctoral programs, accounting teaching, business education, tenured professor, accounting department prestige

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fogarty, Timothy J. and Markarian, Garen, An Empirical Assessment of the Rise and Fall of Accounting as an Academic Discipline (November 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=975120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.975120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
The AACSB Guide to Business Eeducation Accreditation
AACSB International Posted: 2006
S Albrecht , R Sack
Accounting Education: Charting the Course Through a Perilous Future Posted: 2000
Supply and Demand for Accounting Ph.D.s (Sarasota: AAA) Posted: 2005
The Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits-2004 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
746
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,831
RANK
78,026
4 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Publishing in the Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing

By Edward P. Swanson

Concentration in Publishing at Top-Tier Business Journals: Evidence and Potential Explanations

By Edward P. Swanson, Christopher J. Wolfe, ...

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted at the Top 75 Accounting Research Programs

By Steven M. Glover, Douglas F. Prawitt, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies