Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theoretical Review and Framework: The Roles of Controllers

31 Pages Posted: 2 May 2007

J.A. ten Rouwelaar

Nyenrode Business Universiteit

Date Written: April 2007

Abstract

In the last decades, the position of the business unit controller has grown in importance. This study gives a review of the research behind the two roles, which business unit-controllers can fulfill in business life: the support role and the control role. The support role is associated with involvedness of controllers by supporting managerial decision-making in the business unit; the control role focuses on providing reliable and timely financial accounting information for the corporate level and insuring that the financial function complies with relevant regulations. This paper contributes to the Management Accounting literature by documenting the available literature regarding the roles of controllers and by developing a theoretical framework to study the controller involvement in management. Based upon this framework twelve propositions and a regression model are presented, which can be used in future studies to test empirically which factors influence the controller involvement in management.

Keywords: Contingency theory, Role theory, business unit controllers, support role, and control role

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Rouwelaar, Hans ten, Theoretical Review and Framework: The Roles of Controllers (April 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=982831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.982831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems , volume 768 Posted: 2006
B J Biddle
Role theory: Expectations, Identities, and Behaviors , volume 416 Posted: 1972
A F Borthick
Helping Accountants Learn to Get the Information Managers Want: The Role of the Accounting Information Systems Course
Journal of Information Systems , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 85 Posted: 1996
A F Coad
Some survey evidence on the learning and performance orientations of management accountants
Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 109 - 135 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,824
RANK
44,206
2 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Classification of Dutch Controller Graduates by Activities: Images of a Profession

By Bernard Verstegen, Ivo De Loo, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies