Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Interface Between Management Accounting and Modern Information Technology - A Literature Review and Some Empirical Evidence

55 Pages Posted: 8 May 2007

Markus Granlund

Turku School of Economics

Date Written: May 8, 2007

Abstract

Based on a review of earlier research and empirical data this study suggests that the accounting academia has in general a limited understanding of the current developments in the accounting - information technology (IT) interfaces. This knowledge gap has important implications for as regards what should be studied in the area and how, as well as for the usefulness of knowledge we want to hold out to various stakeholders. The purpose of the study is to critically evaluate the status of research on the interface between accounting and IT. The focus of the paper is on the interface between IT and management accounting/control. The analysis demonstrates beneficial/enabling as well as problematic/constraining effects IT developments have had on accounting and control practice. The study particularly discusses the transforming potential of modern IT vis-à-vis the domains of accounting, the complex intertwining of integrated IT with accounting and control, and the paradox of IT complexity and its manifestations in the management accounting domain. The analysis gives reason to be concerned about the current state of Accounting Information Systems research in certain respects.

Keywords: accounting, management accounting, management control, information technology, information system, ERP system, software

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Granlund, Markus, On the Interface Between Management Accounting and Modern Information Technology - A Literature Review and Some Empirical Evidence (May 8, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=985074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.985074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
Business Controller (ICT industry)
CFO
Crossref
Cfo/Cio
Controller (Laboratory equipment manufacturing) 17 Oct. 2003 2' 30
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,156
RANK
4,157
11 Citations
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

By Lawrence D. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies