Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends in Accounting for Business Combinations: A Sixty-Year Review of Three Jurisdictions

27 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2007

Kevin Li

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: March 30, 2007

Abstract

2005 was the first year in history when the US, the UK and the (now very substantial) jurisdiction of international standards were governed by largely harmonised standards on accounting for business combinations. This paper charts the evolution of such standards from the beginning of accounting standard-setting some sixty years ago. It uses a geographical perspective to display the tensions between jurisdictions, and a historical perspective to chart the innovations in standards, the pressures to modify standards, and the processes of, variously, evolution and reversal which have characterised the route to 2005's arrangements. Finally, it draws on the historical experience to assess the durability of the harmonised standards now in place.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kevin, Trends in Accounting for Business Combinations: A Sixty-Year Review of Three Jurisdictions (March 30, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=990482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.990482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Time Line Posted: 1999
Crossref
Accounting for Intangible Assets
Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 24 Posted: 1944
Business Combinations. Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 40 Posted: 1950
Crossref
AIA (1953) Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletin
Accounting Research Bulletin , volume 43
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,776
RANK
130,651
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies