Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration of Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Management Accounting Research: A Critical Realist Approach

51 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2007

Sven Modell

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School; University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting

Date Written: June 29, 2007

Abstract

Empirical management accounting research increasingly mix qualitative and quantitative methods and combine theories generally associated with entrenched and arguably incommensurable paradigms. However, the methodological debate in the management accounting literature has been characterized by considerable polarization and a general lack of communication between paradigms, especially the functionalist and interpretive paradigms. Mixed methods research straddling these paradigms may provide a more comprehensive understanding of management accounting practice and constitutes a potentially powerful means of validating research findings. However, this type of research has also received considerable criticism in the wider social sciences for failing to present a coherent philosophical foundation for producing valid knowledge claims. This is especially the case where the notion of triangulation is invoked as a means of validation. This paper addresses such criticisms by developing a framework for validating mixed methods research based on critical realism and advances a modified notion of triangulation. The applicability of this framework is illustrated through a review of two empirical studies straddling the functionalist and interpretive paradigms. In contrast to contemporary pragmatist thought, implicitly or explicitly guiding much mixed methods research in management accounting, critical realism provides a unified and consistent philosophical foundation for combining methods and theories traditionally associated with these paradigms. More explicit reliance on this perspective may strengthen the position of mixed methods research in management accounting and stimulate cross-paradigmatic communication and learning. Directions for future research are discussed.

Keywords: Critical realism, management accounting, mixed methods research, triangulation, validation

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Modell, Sven, Integration of Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Management Accounting Research: A Critical Realist Approach (June 29, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=997194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.997194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , B B Ajinkya
An evaluation of "the everyday accountant and researching his reality , volume 8 , p. 375 - 384 Posted: 1983
M A Abernethy , W F Chua , P F Luckett , F S Selto
Research in managerial accounting: learning from others' experiences', Accounting and Finance , volume 39 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Ackroyd
Methodology for management and organisation studies: some implications of critical realism
Critical Realist Applications in Organisation and Management Studies Posted: 2004
S Ackroyd , S Fleetwood
Realism in contemporary organisation and management studies
Realist Perspectives on Management and Organizations Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,290
RANK
13,328
7 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

By Lawrence D. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies