Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting: A General Commentary on an Empirical Science

57 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2007

Stanley C.W. Salvary

Canisius College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 28, 2007

Abstract

Many researchers have questioned the view of accounting as a science. Some maintain that it is a service activity rather than a science, yet others entertain the view that it is an art or merely a technology. While it is true that accounting provides a service and is a technology (a methodology for recording and reporting), that fact does not prevent accounting from being a science. Based upon the structure and knowledge base of the discipline, this paper presents the case for accounting as an empirical science.

Keywords: national accounting and organizational accounting, risk-sharing arrangements, management of time and other resources, monetization of the economy, command over goods and services, extrinsic value and intrinsic value, commodity money and paper/nominal money, money in relation to credit

JEL Classification: M41, N00

Suggested Citation:

Salvary, Stanley C.W., Accounting: A General Commentary on an Empirical Science (June 28, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=997282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.997282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
294,906
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies