Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Guanxi and Ethical Orientations on Chinese Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning

Managerial Auditing Journal. Vol 28, No 9, 2013

39 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2008 Last revised: 25 Jan 2017

Mingzhi Liu

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of Chinese auditors’ personal values (guanxi and ethical orientations) on their ethical reasoning (ethical judgments and behavioral intentions). In addition, this study aims to explore the joint effect of guanxi and ethical orientation on auditors’ ethical reasoning.

Design/methodology/approach – This study is based on a field survey of 191 auditors working in Certified Public Accounting (CPA) firms that operate in People’s Republic of China (China).

Findings – The main findings indicate that guanxi and relativism orientations negatively associate with, while idealism orientation positively associates with auditors’ ethical judgments and behavioral intentions. However, when decomposing the overall ethical judgment into three judgment groups, the main effects of guanxi and ethical orientations on auditors’ ethical judgments become marginal and those effects are fully hold only when using acceptability as criteria to judge the questionable vignettes. In addition, the results of the joint effect of guanxi and ethical orientations indicate that guanxi orientation weakens both the positive effect of idealism and the negative effect of relativism orientations on auditors’ ethical reasoning.

Originality/value – This study contributes the literature by investigating the ethical reasoning of auditors in a country with relatively weak legal system that relies on guanxi (literally, interpersonal relationships and connections) culture to operate business. Furthermore, this study extends the literature by documenting the moderating effect of guanxi orientation on the relation between auditors’ ethical orientation and their ethical reasoning.

Keywords: Ethical Reasoning; Guanxi; Idealism; Relativism

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Mingzhi and Liu, Mingzhi, Effect of Guanxi and Ethical Orientations on Chinese Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning (June 1, 2013). Managerial Auditing Journal. Vol 28, No 9, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1083187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1083187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
N R Abramson , J X Ai
Canadian companies doing business in China: Key success factors
Management International Review , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 35 Posted: 1999
J Aharony , C W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S H Ang , S M Leong
Out of the mouths of babes: Business ethics and youths in Asia
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 144 Posted: 2000
A Au , D Wong
The impact of guanxi on the ethical decision-making process of auditors-An exploratory study on Chinese CPAs in Hong Kong
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 93 Posted: 2000
Load more
1 Citations
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,174
RANK
139,795
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies