Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Audit Partner Pre-Client and Client-Specific Experience on Audit Quality and on Perceptions of Audit Quality

45 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2008 Last revised: 7 Oct 2016

Wuchun Chi

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

We examine the associations between audit partner pre-client and client-specific experience and audit quality using data from Taiwan, where signing audit partner names are disclosed. Using discretionary accruals and interest rate spreads to proxy for audit quality and perceptions of audit quality, respectively, we find that both pre-client and client-specific experience improve audit quality and creditor perceptions of audit quality. We also find that audit partner pre-client experience is positively associated with audit quality early in the engagement, but not when the partner has been with the client for at least five years. Our findings provide evidence consistent with the assumption underlying the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s decision to require the disclosure of engagement partner names. They also suggest that pre-client experience cannot completely mitigate the loss of client-specific knowledge when partner or audit firm turnover occurs. 

Keywords: Audit Partner Experience, Audit Quality, Discretionary Accruals, Interest Rate Spreads, Auditor Tenure

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M43, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Wuchun and Myers, Linda A. and Omer, Thomas C. and Xie, Hong, The Effects of Audit Partner Pre-Client and Client-Specific Experience on Audit Quality and on Perceptions of Audit Quality (October 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1304953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1304953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
Y Anzai , H A Simon
The theory of learning by doing
Psychological Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 140 Posted: 1979
Crossref
D Aobdia , C-J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K J Arrow
The economic implications of learning by doing
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 1962
Crossref
Load more
18 Citations
Chen-Chin Wang , Fan-Hua Kung , Kai-Hsun Lin
Does audit firm size contribute to audit quality? Evidence from two emerging markets
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 108 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Urton L. Anderson , Lisa Milici Gaynor , Karl E. Hackenbrack , Ling Lei Lisic , Yi-Jing Wu
Comments by the Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association on PCAOB Release No. 2013-009, Proposed Rule on Improving the Transparency of Audit: Proposed Amendments to PCAOB Auditing Standards to Provide Disclosure in the Auditor's Report of Certain Participants in the Audit
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. C1 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Wen He , Maggie Hu
Religion and Bank Loan Terms
Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 64, 2016 · 42 Pages · Posted: 16 Sep 2015 · Last revised: 21 Jan 2016 · Downloads: 185
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Aobdia , Chan-Jane Lin , Reining Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,318
RANK
34,418
18 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies