Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Staff Auditors’ Compensation Gaps with Audit Partners Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 1538655

Posted: 19 Feb 2022

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xingqiang Du

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Wanfu Li

Nanjing University of Finance & Economics

Jianguang Zeng

Chongqing University

Date Written: February 14, 2021

Abstract

We exploit staggered implementations of the minimum audit fee (MAF) rule in various parts of China and analyze the policy shock to audit firm profits and the resulting audit partner-staff auditor compensation gaps in a difference-in-differences (DID) research design for 2010-2014. We find significant increases in audit firm profits as well as audit partner-staff auditor compensation gaps following the implementations of the MAF rule. More importantly, we find that auditors make lower-magnitude audit adjustments, suggesting lower audit quality following the policy shock. Increased partner-staff compensation gaps at both the audit firm level and the audit team level explain the reduced audit quality following the MAF rule implementations. By documenting a causal effect of increased partner-staff compensation gaps on audit quality, we contribute to the limited archival research on rank-and-file audit personnel compensation. Finally, by identifying unintended consequences of mandating the minimum audit pricing, our findings highlight the importance for regulators to balance their policy goals of regulating audit markets while ensuring proper incentive structures within audit firms.

Keywords: Partner-staff Compensation Gaps, Staff Auditor Salaries, Audit Firm Profits, Audit Adjustments, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42, M52, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Du, Xingqiang and Li, Wanfu and Zeng, Jianguang, Do Staff Auditors’ Compensation Gaps with Audit Partners Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from a Natural Experiment (February 14, 2021). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 1538655, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1538655
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
629
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies