Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Business Process Analysis and Linkages Among Auditor Risk Judgements

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2010 Last revised: 11 Mar 2013

Natalia Kochetova

Saint Mary’s University - Sobey School of Business

Thomas M. Kozloski

Saint Mary's University - Sobey School of Business

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: January 9, 2013

Abstract

This research note examines whether auditors “link” their entity-level risk assessments to their core business process risk assessments. For auditors who performed a business process analysis of the core business process, there is a positive association between the identification of significant process-level business risks and the identification of significant business risks at the entity level. We also find that performing a business process analysis leads to higher assessments of the risk of material misstatement at the process level. With respect to the linkages between risk-related judgments, we find that auditors link their assessments of misstatement risk at the process level to similar assessments at the entity level, while taking into account significant process-level risks.

Keywords: Business Process Analysis, Risk Assessment, Risk of Material Misstatement, Business Risk Identification, Risk-based Audits

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kochetova, Natalia and Kozloski, Thomas M. and Messier Jr, William F., Auditor Business Process Analysis and Linkages Among Auditor Risk Judgements (January 9, 2013). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1578923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2012. Statements on Auditing Standards
Crossref
B Ballou , C E Earley , J Rich
The impact of strategic positioning information on auditor judgments about business process performance
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Bannert
Managing cognitive load-recent trends in cognitive load theory
Learning and Instruction , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 146 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T Bell , F Marrs , I Solomon , H Thomas
Auditing Organizations through a Strategic Systems Lens: The KPMG Business Measurement Process. KPMG Peat Marwick LLP Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,091
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,802
RANK
46,273
3 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Strategic Reasoning and Brainstorming Help Auditors Change Their Standard Audit Procedures in Response to Fraud Risk?

By Vicky B. Hoffman and Mark F. Zimbelman

Auditors' Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Evidence from the Field

By Joseph F. Brazel, Tina Carpenter, ...

The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors' Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

By Jacqueline S. Hammersley, E. Michael Bamber, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies