Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Size and Audit Quality Revisited: The Importance of Audit Technology

56 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2010 Last revised: 1 Feb 2020

Louis-Philippe Sirois

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2011

Abstract

We revisit the notion of audit quality and investigate how audit quality is related to auditor size and the structure of the auditing industry. We discuss a model of audit firm competition where both audit quality and audit firm size are endogenous. Based on this model, we predict how certain market characteristics, namely market size and investor protection regime, affect the structure of the auditing industry and differences between Big 4 and non-Big 4 audit quality and fees. In the model, audit technology plays a central role in determining the level of audit quality and fees as Big 4 auditors compete on both quality and price through fixed investments in technology, the level of which is increasing in both market size and the level of investor protection. The model offers a coherent explanation for the documented ‘Big 4/non-Big 4 dichotomy’ and dual structure of the industry.

Our analysis has both testable empirical implications and policy implications. It provides insights on how audit firms compete and how the industry evolves, and suggests that despite high levels of market concentration, the market for audit services remains competitive and innovative, consistent with empirical evidence.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Big 4 Auditors, Big 4 fee Premium, Market Structure

JEL Classification: M42, D43, L11, L22, L84

Suggested Citation:

Sirois, Louis-Philippe and Simunic, Dan A., Auditor Size and Audit Quality Revisited: The Importance of Audit Technology (July 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1694613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1694613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Choi
Big 4/non-Big 4 dichotomy' 50 . Moreover, as we have shown, the EFC model is useful in reconciling reported results which Posted: 2008
However, as argued by Bresnahan (1992) and others, it is the 'fixedness' of investments in audit technology that is the driving force of the results presented above, and the condition that such investments be sunk is nonessential. Accordingly, we have throughout this paper referred to the model as the 'Endogenous Fixed Cost' model as it often is in more recent industrial organisation studies
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales Posted: 2005
J C Bedard , D R Deis , M B Curtis , J G Jenkins
Risk monitoring and control in audit firms: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 218 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Berry , J Waldfogel , ; Ct , P A Philadelphia , H Blokdijk , F Drieenhuizen , D A Simunic , M T Stein
An analysis of crosssectional differences in big and non-big public accounting firms' audit programs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,861
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,135
RANK
6,460
29 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies