Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abnormal Audit Fees and Properties of Analyst Forecasts, the Role of Cross-Listing and Legal Origin

CAAA Annual Conference 2011

28 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011

Sophie Audousset-Coulier

Concordia University, Quebec - John Molson School of Business

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Byron Y. Song

Concordia University, Quebec - John Molson School of Business

Date Written: January 14, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the influence of audit quality on the quality of earnings measured by the accuracy of analysts’ earnings forecasts. A high perceived audit quality enhances the confidence in the integrity of financial reporting and signals greater precision of earnings’ information, thus our hypothesis is that firms with high quality audits will have more persistent and predictable earnings and then more accurate earnings forecasts. The paper benefits from two specificities of the Canadian context: the exposure to a more litigious legal environment for Canadian firms which are cross-listed in the U.S., and an exposure to a Civil French Law environment for Canadian firms incorporated in the province of Quebec (versus common law for the rest of Canadian provinces). We add additional hypotheses derived from the specificities of our Canadian sample to analyze the effect of those legal environment indicators on our main research question.

We use abnormal audit fees to measure audit quality and we control for the influence of cross-listing and the legal regime, on a sample of 798 listed Canadian firms for the year 2007. Audit data were hand collected. Our preliminary findings confirm the asymmetric distribution of abnormal audit fees and document a negative association between positive abnormal audit fees analyst forecast accuracy, whereas there is no association with negative abnormal audit fees. We also document the effects of cross-listing and legal environment on the association between audit quality and analyst forecast accuracy.

Keywords: Audit, Quality, Accuracy

Suggested Citation:

Audousset-Coulier, Sophie and Jeny, Anne and Song, Byron Y., Abnormal Audit Fees and Properties of Analyst Forecasts, the Role of Cross-Listing and Legal Origin (January 14, 2011). CAAA Annual Conference 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1740741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1740741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting research , volume 35 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Anderson , D Zéghal
The pricing of audit services: Further evidence from the Canadian market
Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassel , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,925
RANK
422,861
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies