Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence Impairment: Bonding between Clients and Individual Engagement Partners

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011 Last revised: 11 Sep 2019

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Date Written: September 09, 2019

Abstract

In this study, I investigate whether the economic bond between an individual audit engagement partner and a client threatens auditor independence (and thus audit quality). As the propensity of the auditor to issue going-concern modified audit opinions (GCOs) is lower when there is auditor independence impairment, I examine to which extent fee dependency leads to a lower propensity to issue GCOs. Using archival data from Belgian private companies, I empirically examine a sample of 18,638 companies for the period 2008–2010 to test for the effect of the auditor-client bond on the audit opinion. None of my results support common concerns that client importance undermines auditors’ GCO reporting decisions, neither at the firm level nor at the partner level. Specifically, I find no evidence for a negative association between the likelihood that an auditor issues a GCO and the economic importance of that client to the auditor (firm or partner). These results are supported by analyses on an additional sample of 5,934 companies for the period 2011–2013. Despite broad concerns among academics and regulators about auditor independence and economic bonding, this is one of the first studies to investigate this issue at the partner level and for private clients.

Keywords: Client Importance, Audit Quality, Auditor Independence, Audit Opinion, Audit Partner

JEL Classification: M42, M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris, Auditor Independence Impairment: Bonding between Clients and Individual Engagement Partners (September 09, 2019). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1741406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1741406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
P K Chaney , D C Jeter , L Shivakumar
Self-Selection of Auditors and Audit Pricing in Private Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Chen , S Y J Sun , D Wu
Client Importance, Institutional Improvements, and Audit Quality in China: An Office and Individual Auditor Level Analysis
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 158 Posted: 2010
Crossref
F Chen , S Peng , S Xue , Z Yang , F Ye
Do Audit Clients Successfully Engage in Opinion Shopping? Partner-Level Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2016
Crossref
W Chi , E B Douthett , L L Lei
Client Importance and Audit Partner Independence
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 320 - 336 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
952
RANK
741,983
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies