Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Audit Quality on Earnings Management and Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from India

International Journal of Auditing, 2017, DOI 10.1111/ijau.12087

39 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2011 Last revised: 30 Apr 2017

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Kamran Ahmed

La Trobe Business School, La Trobe University

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

This study examines the effect of audit quality on earnings management and cost of equity capital of listed companies in India. Our results show that companies employing a high quality auditor have a lower degree of earnings management and lower cost of equity capital. The results also show that companies belonging to business groups have a lower degree of earnings management and lower cost of equity capital than do stand-alone companies but that they benefit less from employing a high quality auditor. Our results are based on a large sample of 7,303 company-year observations on listed companies in India and are robust to alternative measures for our main variables – audit quality, earnings management, and cost of capital – and to tests for endogeneity and the impact of the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). Given the distinctive and unique institutional features of the Indian market such as the dominant role of family business groups in the national economy, large market share of domestic audit firms, less litigious environment, and less effective professional accounting bodies in checking audit failure, our findings make a significant contribution to the literature on the role of audit quality as a corporate governance monitoring mechanism as reflected in the impact on earnings management and cost of equity capital.

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Ahmed, Kamran and van Zijl, Tony, Effects of Audit Quality on Earnings Management and Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from India (December 1, 2011). International Journal of Auditing, 2017, DOI 10.1111/ijau.12087, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1967293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1967293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
H Ashbaugh , T D Warfield
Audits as a corporate governance mechanism: evidence from the German market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jeny , J Jiang
The validity of auditor industry specialization measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Azizkhani , G S Monroe , G Shailer
The value of Big 4 audits in Australia
Accounting and Finance , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 743 - 766 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Bachoo , R Tan , M Wilson
The Quality of Sustainability Reporting and Cost of Capital: Australian Evidence
Australian Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 87 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
RANK
259,422
5 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies