Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who are Industry Specialist Auditors?

CAAA Annual Conference 2012

41 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2012

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Sophie Audousset-Coulier

Concordia University, Quebec - John Molson School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to analyze the effects of using several definitions and several measurements of auditor industry specialization in the empirical audit research. Industry specialist auditors are supposed to be able to provide better quality audits therefore, auditor industry specialization measures have been developed and used in the empirical audit research. In a first step, we empirically test whether different definitions of auditor industry specialist result in consistent designations of audit firms as specialists of a given industry and find that inconsistent industry specialist definitions lead to inconsistent designation of audit firms as industry specialists. In a second step, we test and demonstrate that these different auditor industry designations lead to inconsistent results in terms of magnitude and significance regarding the fee premium paid to auditor industry specialists. Such evidence raises an issue of whether the findings in prior studies are subject to measurement errors of audit industry specialists.

Keywords: Auditor industry specialists, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Like and Jeny, Anne and Audousset-Coulier, Sophie, Who are Industry Specialist Auditors? (January 10, 2012). CAAA Annual Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1984960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1984960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J V Carcello , A L Nagy
Client size, auditor specialization, and fraudulent financial reporting
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , p. 651 - 668 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J R Casterella , J R Francis , B L Lewis , P L Walker
Auditor industry specialization, client bargaining power, and audit pricing
Auditing, A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 140 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J.-H Choi , J.-B Kim , Y Zang
Do abnormally high audit fees impair audit quality? Auditing: A
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 115 - 140 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Wen-Jye Hung , Pei-Gi Shu , Ya-Min Wang , Tsui-Lin Chiang
The relationship between auditing industry specialization and the relative derivatives use for earnings management: evidence from China
International Journal of Emerging Markets , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 863 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Wen-Jye Hung , Pei-Gi Shu , Yi-Yin Ruan , Yamin Wang
Collusion or supervision? Between auditor and audit firm – tax planning’s perspective
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 509 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Liansheng Wu , Dan Yang , Jasmine Zhang , Xiao-Jun Zhang , Wei Zhou
Big N Audit Quality Effect: New Evidence on Audit Hours and Audit Adjustments
75 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 3 May 2023 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,515
RANK
416,133
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies