Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Participant Observation Study of the Resolution of Audit Engagement Challenges in Governmental Tax Compliance Audits

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2013

Rick Stephan Hayes

California State University at Los Angeles

Charles Richard Baker

Adelphi University - School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2013

Abstract

The previous auditing literature has examined how audit engagement challenges have been resolved through auditor/auditee negotiation. This paper extends the prior literature by examining audit engagement challenges arising during governmental tax compliance audits involving regulated wineries in the United States. The empirical evidence for this paper was gathered during a participant observation study conducted by the primary researcher over a six year period while working as an auditor for the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) of the United States Department of Treasury. The principal contribution of this paper lies in the fact that little or no prior research in auditing has been conducted using participant observation as a research methodology. In addition, the use of participant observation as a research methodology provides a new perspective on the resolution of audit engagement challenges through improvement of auditor/auditee communication and negotiation.

Keywords: participant observation, auditing challenges, governmental tax compliance auditing, auditor/client negotiations

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, Rick Stephan and Baker, Charles Richard, A Participant Observation Study of the Resolution of Audit Engagement Challenges in Governmental Tax Compliance Audits (January 10, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2199135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
C R Baker
Management strategy in a large accounting firm
The Accounting Review , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 576 - 586 Posted: 1977
V Beattie , R Brandt , S Fearnley
Behind the audit report. A descriptive study of discussions and negotiations between auditors and directors
International Journal of Auditing , volume 4 , p. 177 - 202 Posted: 2000-07
Crossref
D Bobek , B Daugherty , R Radtke
Resolving audit engagement challenges through communication
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 21 - 45 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Comptroller General of the United States
Government Auditing Standards Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,937
RANK
355,843
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Evidence About Auditor-Client Management Negotiation Concerning Client's Financial Reporting

By Michael Gibbins, Alan Webb, ...

Auditor Negotiations: An Examination of the Efficacy of Intervention Methods

By Ken Trotman, Arnold Wright, ...

A Review and Integration of Empirical Research on Materiality: Two Decades Later

By William F. Messier, Jr., Nonna Martinov-bennie, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies