Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Norwegian Evidence

43 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2013 Last revised: 21 Jun 2015

Yu (Elli) Zhang

Independent

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Claus Holm

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

We examine the effect on auditor independence of auditors providing non-audit services in the Norwegian audit market. We report the results of three tests of independence of mind and one test of independence in appearance. These tests find that there is a positive relationship between audit fees and non-audit fees, which does not suggest loss of independence. Further analysis using two-stage least squares shows that audit and non-audit fees are jointly determined, and the results are still not consistent with loss of independence. There is no relationship between the provision of non-audit services and the frequency with which auditors issue modified audit opinions. There is no association between non-audit services and audit tenure. Finally, we examine the relationship between unexpected or excess non-audit fees and cost of capital. There is no relationship. Our findings fail to find any evidence for loss of independence of mind or loss of independence of appearance as a result of providing non-audit services.

Keywords: auditing, non-audit fees, auditor independence, audit opinion, audit tenure, Norway

JEL Classification: M41, L84, G18

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yu (Elli) and Hay, David and Holm, Claus, Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Norwegian Evidence (June 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2248064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2248064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,789
RANK
130,651
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Relation between Auditors' Fees for Non-Audit Services and Earnings Management

By Richard M. Frankel, Marilyn F. Johnson, ...

Do Non-Audit Service Fees Impair Auditor Independence? Evidence from Going-Concern Audit Opinions

By Mark L. Defond, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

An Economic Analysis of Auditor Independence for a Multi-Client, Multi-Service Public Accounting Firm

By Rick Antle, Paul A. Griffin, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies