Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Auditors Reach Balance or Expediency and Independence?

Arnold, D. F., Bernardi, R. A., and Neidermeyer, P. E.: (2006). How Auditors Reach Balance or Expediency and Independence? CA Magazine, 50-52.

Posted: 31 Jan 2014

Donald F. Arnold

Union Graduate College - School of Management

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Presha E. Neidermeyer

West Virginia University - Department of Accounting and Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 13, 2013

Abstract

To imply that a series of behavioral controls solves the problem begs the question of human behavior. How would auditors really act when faced with tough issues of independence? Would they consistently act in a manner that would guarantee the needed state of independence? Or might they allow the situational factors of the dilemma guide their actions.

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Donald F. and Bernardi, Richard A. and Neidermeyer, Presha E., How Auditors Reach Balance or Expediency and Independence? (April 13, 2013). Arnold, D. F., Bernardi, R. A., and Neidermeyer, P. E.: (2006). How Auditors Reach Balance or Expediency and Independence? CA Magazine, 50-52. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2250570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies