Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework and Validation of Interactions Among Business Risk, Governance Mechanisms, Audit Fees, and the Content of Auditor's Report

El-Dyasty, M. A (2013).framework and validation of Interactions among Business Risk, Governance Mechanisms, Audit Fees, and the Content of Auditor Report . The Egyptian Journal for Commercial Studies. Vol. 37:1, 1-40.

36 Pages Posted: 22 May 2017

Mohamed M. El-Dyasty

Mansoura University

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

Auditing literature lacks an integrated vision for interactions among business Risk, governance mechanisms, audit fees, and the content of auditor report.

The objective of this study is to construct a theoretical framework to interpret the interactions among the four elements. In addition, the framework is tested, for validation.

Findings show that determining of audit fees depend on governance mechanisms and auditor type and are associated with business risk.

Results reveal that auditors' propensity to issue qualified reports is related to size of managerial ownership, business risk, and abnormal audit fess.

Finally, the accuracy of auditor opinion is related to business risk.

Keywords: Business Risk, Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Audit fees, Abnormal Audit Fess and the Content of Auditor Report

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

El-Dyasty, Mohamed M., A Framework and Validation of Interactions Among Business Risk, Governance Mechanisms, Audit Fees, and the Content of Auditor's Report (January 1, 2013). El-Dyasty, M. A (2013).framework and validation of Interactions among Business Risk, Governance Mechanisms, Audit Fees, and the Content of Auditor Report . The Egyptian Journal for Commercial Studies. Vol. 37:1, 1-40., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2255025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
668,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies