Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spatial Competition at the Intersection of the Large and Small Audit Firm Markets

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2013 Last revised: 5 May 2015

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Nathaniel M. Stephens

BYU-Hawaii

Date Written: March 25, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we study spatial competition in the U.S. audit market while accounting for its two-tiered nature. We provide evidence on the differential impact that market share distances within and between the players in the large and small audit markets have on competition. We find that the market share distance from small audit firm competitors has a greater effect on the Big 4’s audit fees than distances from other Big 4 competitors. This finding suggests that small audit firms play a significant part in the competitive landscape in local markets. Further, we find that audit fees are increasing with the distance between a small audit firm and its closest competing small audit firm while audit fees are decreasing with the distance between a small audit firm and its closest competing large audit firm. This suggests that while obtaining separation in market space from competing small audit firms reduces competitive pressure from other small audit firms, as a small audit firm gets closer to the market space of a large audit firm it is perceived as being more like the larger audit firm and is able to obtain a fee premium like that attained by the larger audit firms.

Keywords: spatial competition; market for audit services; market space; differentiation; small audit market

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Stephens, Nathaniel M., Spatial Competition at the Intersection of the Large and Small Audit Firm Markets (March 25, 2015). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2257960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP) Posted: 2008
S P Bandyopadhyay , J L Kao
Market structure and audit fees: a local analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 529 - 561 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Boone , I Khurana , K K Raman
Do the Big 4 and the Second-tier firms provide audits of similar quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Casterella , J R Francis , B L Lewis , P L Walker
Auditor industry specialization, client bargaining power, and audit pricing
Audit: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 140 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
454
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,878
RANK
145,674
8 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies