Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Service Innovation on Financial Performance of Small Audit Firms in Taiwan

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 8 (2) pp. 87-99, 2014

14 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Yi-Fang Yang

Chang Jung Christian University

Lee Wen Yang

Chaoyang University of Technology

Yahn-Shir Chen

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study examines the effects of service innovation on financial performance of proprietorship audit firms in Taiwan. This study divides total sample into three business strategy categories, including conventional, non-conventional, and general firms. Non-conventional firms have the highest degree of service innovation followed by general firms. Conventional firms have the lowest degree of service innovation. Empirical results indicate that non-conventional firms financially outperform general firms, and the latter outperforms conventional firms.

Keywords: Service Innovation, Financial Performance, Audit Firms

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yi-Fang and Yang, Lee Wen and Chen, Yahn-Shir, Effects of Service Innovation on Financial Performance of Small Audit Firms in Taiwan (2014). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 8 (2) pp. 87-99, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2322964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A A Arens , R J Elder , B Mark
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach
NJ Posted: 2012
R D Banker , H Chang , R Natarajan
Productivity Change, Technical Progress, and Relative Efficiency Change in the Public Accounting Industry
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P J Beck , T J Frecka , I Solomon
A Model of the Market for MAS and Audit Services: Knowledge Spillovers and Auditor-Auditee Bonding
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 7 , p. 50 - 64 Posted: 1988
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,878
RANK
239,334
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies