Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Type a Personality on Auditor Burnout: Evidence from Indonesia

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5 (2) pp. 89-102, 2013

14 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2014

Intiyas Utami

Satya Wacana Christian University

Ertambang Nahartyo

Universitas Gadjah Mada

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This study examines the moderating effect of type A personality on the influence of role stressors (role conflict, role overload, and role ambiguity) on burnout. Most burnout research has focused on various environmental factors, while individual differences also play an important role in the development of burnout (Maslach et al., 2001). Participants of this study are 58 auditors (junior, senior and manager) who work at public accounting firms in Yogyakarta, Semarang, Jakarta and Palembang. The regression analysis shows that type A personality intensifies the influence of role conflict and role overload on burnout. However, the research does not find the evidence the effect of role ambiguity on burnout. The paper concludes with a discussion of the implications of these results.

Keywords: Burnout, Type A Personality, Role Conflict, Role Overload, Role Ambiguity

JEL Classification: M20

Suggested Citation:

Utami, Intiyas and Nahartyo, Ertambang, The Effect of Type a Personality on Auditor Burnout: Evidence from Indonesia (2013). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5 (2) pp. 89-102, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Abush , E J Burkhead
Job Stress in Midlife Working Women: Relationships among Personality Type, Job Characteristics and Job Tension
Journal of Counseling Psychology , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 44 Posted: 1984
Crossref
J Y Advani , S C Jagdale , A K Garg , R Kumar
Antecedents and Consequences of "Burnout" in Services Personnel: A Case of Indian Software Professionals
South Asian Journal of Management , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 21 - 34 Posted: 2005
T A Beehr , J T Walsh , T D Taber
Relationship of Stress to Individually and Organizationally Values States: Higher Order Needs as a Moderator
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 61 , p. 41 - 47 Posted: 1976
Crossref
J S Boles , B J Babin
On the Front Lines: Stress, Conflict and the Customer Service Provider
Journal of Business Research , volume 37 , p. 41 - 50 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
756
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,248
RANK
49,033
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies