Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Halo Effect in Analytical Procedure: The Impact of Client Profile and Information Scope

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 8 (1) pp. 9-26, 2014

18 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Intiyas Utami

Satya Wacana Christian University

Indra Kusuma

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Dr. Gudono

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Dr. Supriyadi

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Many auditors use risk-based audit as a methodology that emphasizes assessing audit risk. A holistic perspective during strategic assessment encourages the auditor to focus on the big picture. They understand the industry and client business and determine the risk of material misstatement as an initial hypothesis about the client. Previous research found that a holistic perspective in strategic assessment causes a halo effect. This study focuses on the phenomena of a halo effect in analytical procedures, the impact of a client’s profile and scope of information that be presented to auditor in planning an audit. We propose that auditor judgment is impacted by the client’s profile and professional judgment will be different in a holistic perspective. This study is motivated by bounded rationality of individuals and uses representative heuristics to evaluate clients. The holistic opinion of the person tends to be consistent when analyzing detailed diagnostic information about the person. In an analytical procedure context, understanding of the industry and client business influences the extent to which they adjust account-level risk assessment. We propose two hypotheses. The first hypotheses is that the risk of material misstatement after presentation of client’s profile is positively correlated with the risk of material misstatement after get financial information of client. The second hypothesis is an auditor who obtains information about a client in the scope of holistic information would determine the risk of material misstatement lower than auditor who obtains information in scope of specific information. Data from laboratory experiment using various levels of auditor were collected. The finding suggest a halo effect is generated during analytical procedures and when auditors obtain information about the client in holistic scope.

Keywords: Halo Effect, Analytical Procedure, Scope of Holistic Information, Specific Scope Information

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Utami, Intiyas and Kusuma, Indra and Gudono, Dr. and Supriyadi, Dr., Halo Effect in Analytical Procedure: The Impact of Client Profile and Information Scope (2014). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 8 (1) pp. 9-26, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Auditing Practice Release: Analytical Procedures
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 1988
AICPA Professional Standards Posted: 2012
A A Arens , R J Elder , M A Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2012
S Asare , A Wright
Hypothesis Revision Strategies in Conducting Analytical Procedures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 737 - 755 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,264
RANK
177,685
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies