Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Experience Affect Auditors’ Professional Judgment? Evidence from Puerto Rico

Accounting & Taxation, v. 5 (2) p. 13-32, 2013

20 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Carmen Ríos-Figueroa

Universidad del Este

Rogelio J. Cardona

University of Puerto Rico-Río Piedras

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Auditors use professional judgment to collect and evaluate evidence to issue an opinion on the fairness of a business entity’s financial statements. Prior research finds that international auditing firms should consider cultural aspects when planning an audit examination and that the experience and knowledge possessed by an auditor influences the decision-making processes in an audit. This paper examines whether experience could affect the professional judgment of auditors during the planning phase of an audit. The investigation consists of a survey made among auditors working in audit and accounting firms, Independent Practitioners, and university senior students majoring in accounting to determine if the years of work experience of an auditor influences the evaluation of the internal control environment and the assessment of fraud risk for a firm operating in different countries with different cultural characteristics. The results obtained suggest that experience does not seem to affect their decisions when they are based on professional judgment.

Keywords: Experience, Culture, Internal Control, Fraud Risk, Individualism/Collectivism, Power Distance, Uncertainty Avoidance, Short and Long-Term Vision, Professional Judgment

JEL Classification: F23, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ríos-Figueroa, Carmen and Cardona, Rogelio J., Does Experience Affect Auditors’ Professional Judgment? Evidence from Puerto Rico (2013). Accounting & Taxation, v. 5 (2) p. 13-32, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Ashton , P R Brown
Descriptive modeling of auditors' internal control judgments: Replications and extension
Journal of Accounting Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 269 - 277 Posted: 1980
J Bedard
Expertise in Auditing: Myth or Reality. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 1989
S Bonner , B Lewis
Determinants of auditor expertise
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1990
F C Brulenski , J &amp; R , Zayas
Fraud detection is not by the numbers
CPA Journal , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 35 - 37 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
506
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,140
RANK
127,848
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies