Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence, Audit Fees Lowballing, and Non-Audit Services: Evidence from Fiji

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5 (2) pp. 103-120, 2013

18 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2014 Last revised: 19 Dec 2016

Arvind Patel

University of South Pacific

Pranil Prasad

University of the South Pacific

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This study empirically examines the supply side of the market for non-audit services. In particular, a model for the supply side of the market for non-audit services is developed. This model is then tested using audit and non-audit fee data from Fijian listed companies from the year 1980 to 2010. We find that audit fee low-balling leads to increased supply of non-audit services. This result is statistically significant. We also find that Big 4 auditors supply less non-audit services compared to non-Big 4 auditors. Finally, we find that the longer the auditor tenure the lower the supply of non-audit services. However, both these results are statistically insignificant. This leads to a conclusion that non-audit services are being supplied for opportunistic reasons as opposed to efficiency reasons. Our results are robust to a number of sensitivity checks.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Audit Fees, Non-Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Patel, Arvind and Prasad, Pranil, Auditor Independence, Audit Fees Lowballing, and Non-Audit Services: Evidence from Fiji (2013). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5 (2) pp. 103-120, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Audit, non-audit and information technology fees: Some empirical evidence
Accounting and the Public Interest , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Arnett , P Danos
CPA firm viability Posted: 1979
B Asanuma
Manufacturer-supplier relationships in Japan and the concept of relation-specific skill
Journal of the Japanese and International Economies , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 1989
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,906
RANK
94,656
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies