Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Problem Directors and Audit Fees

Posted: 3 Nov 2013

Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan

Massey University

Ahsan Habib

Auckland University of Technology

Asheq Razaur Rahman

School of Accountancy, Massey University

Date Written: November 1, 2013

Abstract

This research investigates the association between the presence of problem directors on company boards and audit committees and audit fees of companies. The presence of problem directors on company boards and audit committees is a sign of past management failures and indiscretions. Such weaknesses on the board may require more enhanced audit procedures, which can lead to higher audit fees. Using a sample of 1,405 firm-year observations from 2004 to 2009 of S&P500 firms we find that the presence of problem directors on the company board and audit committees is indeed positively associated with positive abnormal audit fees. This issue has implications for investors, auditors, directors and regulators.

Keywords: problem directors, audit committees, abnormal audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Bhuiyan, Md. Borhan Uddin and Habib, Ahsan and Rahman, Asheq Razaur Razaur, Problem Directors and Audit Fees (November 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2349196
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies