Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Compliance and Audit Quality Among Big 3 Auditors: The Case of Goodwill Impairment

18 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2014

Nur Hidayah Laili

Macquarie Graduate School of Management

Khairil Faizal Khairi

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM), Malaysia

Date Written: July 16, 2013

Abstract

The highly prescriptive and technical provisions of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 136 – Impairment of Assets (FRS 136, 2009) represent a very substantial variation from past practice. This gives rise to questions about how Malaysian companies and their auditors have fared during the process of transition to a complex reporting regime. Hence, this study examines the degree of technical compliance with the disclosure requirements of FRS 136 (Amended by Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009) by a sample of 20 large Malaysian shariah approved companies used as a proxy for audit quality. This research employed six analytical structures to distinguish audit quality among the Big 3 in an attempt to question the homogeneity of audit quality assumption. The evidence presented in this study suggests that there is no variation in audit quality among the Big 3 and contributes to the existing literature that audit quality among the largest audit firms is homogenous. The findings will be of interest to investors, analysts, regulators and in other jurisdictions undergoing transition to IFRS.

Keywords: Goodwill, FRS136, Impairment, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Laili, Nur Hidayah and Khairi, Khairil Faizal, IFRS Compliance and Audit Quality Among Big 3 Auditors: The Case of Goodwill Impairment (July 16, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
T M Carlin , N Finch , N H Laili
Goodwill Accounting in Malaysia and the Transition to IFRS -A Compliance Assessment of Large First Year Adopters
Journal of Financial Reporting & Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 104 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T M Carlin , N Finch
Resisting Compliance with IFRS Goodwill Accounting and Reporting Disclosures: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 260 - 80 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G Colbert , D Murray
The Association between Auditor Quality and Auditor Size: An Analysis of Small CPA Firms
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 50 Posted: 1998
Crossref
N Dopuch
Capital Markets' Reaction to Qualified Audit Reports
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
RANK
165,762
3 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

German Government Panel on Corporate Governance

By Theodor Baums

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies