Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are There Adverse Consequences of Mandatory Auditor Rotation? Evidence from the Italian Experience

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2013 Last revised: 19 Mar 2017

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Antonio Marra

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 12, 2013

Abstract

Mandatory auditor rotation was recently proposed for the European Union and is also under consideration in the United States. There has been little research into either the benefits or costs of rotation in a true mandatory setting that could inform intelligent policy making. Our paper helps fill this gap by examining Italy where mandatory rotation of auditors has been required since 1975. We find that outgoing auditors do not shirk on effort (or quality), but final year fees are 7 percent higher than normal which may indicate opportunistic pricing. The fees of incoming auditors are discounted by 16 percent even though they have abnormally higher engagement hours in the first year (17 percent), which is suggestive of low balling. However, subsequent fees are abnormally higher and exceed the initial fee discount. Thus the costs of mandatory rotation are nontrivial. Higher costs could be acceptable if rotation improves audit quality, but we find evidence of the opposite. Namely, the quality of audited earnings is lower in the first three years following rotation, relative to later years of auditor tenure. Since rotation is costly and earnings quality improves with longer auditor tenure, the evidence from Italy does not support the case for mandatory rotation.

Keywords: auditor rotation, audit fees, earnings quality, audit market regulation

JEL Classification: K22, L51, L80, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Francis, Jere R. and Marra, Antonio and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate, Are There Adverse Consequences of Mandatory Auditor Rotation? Evidence from the Italian Experience (December 12, 2013). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2367060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2367060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
29 Citations
Paul Andre , Géraldine Broye , Christopher K.M. Pong , Alain Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
52 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2012 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 1,047
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
경태 공
주기적 감사인 지정제가 재량적 발생액에 미치는 영향*
Korean Accounting Journal , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
경태 공
주기적 감사인 지정제와 계속 감사의 가치관련성 비교*
Korean Accounting Journal , volume 33 , issue 5 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Ulf Mohrmann
What are the Drivers of Audit Quality after an Auditor Change? Evidence from Voluntary and Mandatory Auditor Switches
34 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2015 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2017 · Downloads: 420
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,529
RANK
42,201
29 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies