Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comprehensive and Quantitative Internal Control Index: Construction, Validation, and Impact

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, August 2017, Vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 337-377

64 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2013 Last revised: 1 Jul 2017

Hanwen Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Wang Dong

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Hongling Han

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: December 12, 2013

Abstract

We use a new method to better measure internal control quality. Specifically, we construct an internal control index for all public firms in China, because the lack of internal control regulations during our sample period presents an interesting setting, in which the diversity of internal control quality is preserved. Two distinctive features set our index apart from the information currently available under SOX 404 in the U.S. First, it comprehensively evaluates a firm’s internal control, based on the COSO framework. Second, it quantitatively measures a firm’s internal control, using the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) designed for analyzing complex decisions. We proceed to validate our index by confirming the known relation between internal control quality and earnings management. Further, we theorize that our internal control index has a positive impact on the earnings response coefficient (ERC), and find that better internal control indeed makes financial reporting more credible to investors.

Keywords: Internal Control Index; COSO; Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP); Earnings Quality; Earnings Response Coefficient (ERC)

JEL Classification: M42; C44

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hanwen and Dong, Wang and Han, Hongling and Zhou, Nan, A Comprehensive and Quantitative Internal Control Index: Construction, Validation, and Impact (December 12, 2013). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, August 2017, Vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 337-377, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
874
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,168
RANK
63,053
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies