Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Incomplete Audit at the Earnings Announcement: Implications for Financial Reporting Quality and the Market’s Response to Earnings

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-38

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2013 Last revised: 5 Dec 2018

Nathan T. Marshall

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2018

Abstract

There has been a substantial increase, since 2004, in the number of firms that announce annual earnings before audit completion as opposed to after audit completion. In this study, we argue that earnings announced before audit completion are associated with lower financial reporting quality and investor perceptions that earnings are more likely to be overstated. Consistent with this expectation, we document that the market places more (less) weight on good (bad) earnings news for earnings announced after audit completion relative to earnings announced before audit completion. We continue to find this differential market response when we expand the returns window to include the 10-K filing date, suggesting that the differential response is not driven by investors’ temporary concerns about earnings revisions between the earnings announcement and the 10-K filing date or by differential GAAP disclosures in the earnings announcement, as suggested in prior research. Finally, as a direct test of financial reporting quality, we show that earnings announced with a completed audit are less likely to be restated in the future, are less likely to meet or beat expectations, and are associated with fewer income-increasing discretionary accruals than those announced with an incomplete audit.

Keywords: audit completeness; earnings announcement; market reliance; financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

Marshall, Nathan T. and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, An Incomplete Audit at the Earnings Announcement: Implications for Financial Reporting Quality and the Market’s Response to Earnings (May 3, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-38, Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2370048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2370048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,436
RANK
93,127
9 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies