Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Financial Statement Audit Reduce the Cost of Debt of Private Firms?

59 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2014

Jernej Koren

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Urska Kosi

Paderborn University; University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Aljosa Valentincic

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: January 2, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the effect of audit on private firms’ cost of debt. We use a sample of 1,949 small private firms operating in the period 2006-2010 with optional financial statement audit. High quality data allows us to construct a more precise interest rate measure than existing studies employ. After controlling for obvious sources of demand for voluntary audits (ownership complexity, subsidiary status, bank relations), we find a robust central result that voluntary audits increase rather than decrease the cost of debt financing, contrary to several existing studies. This finding indicates that voluntary audits are generally treated as “adopting a label” and penalised by creditors, regardless of the perceived auditor quality as a result of the lemon problem in the audit market. Even Big-4 audits increase the cost of debt, likely as a result due to the lemon problem in the audit market, although the increase is smaller than for non-Big-4 audits. The results are sensitive to the estimation method used (OLS, Heckman’s two-step, PSM) and (sub-)sample selection. We show that disregarding the underlying assumptions of these estimation methods may lead to incorrect inferences. Additional analyses show that audited firms’ reported earnings are less informative about future operating performance than earnings of their unaudited counterparts. Our results also indicate that results are sensitive to cost of debt definition and this might have affected the results reported in the existing literature.

Keywords: private firms, voluntary audit, cost of debt, self-selection bias, lemon problem

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Koren, Jernej and Kosi, Urska and Valentincic, Aljosa, Does Financial Statement Audit Reduce the Cost of Debt of Private Firms? (January 2, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2373987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2373987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,021
RANK
102,135
8 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Verification in Debt Financing: Evidence from Private U.S. Firms

By Michael Minnis

Voluntary Audits and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Jeong-bon Kim, Dan A. Simunic, ...

Voluntary Audit and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Dan A. Simunic, Jeong-bon Kim, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies