Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Expectation Gap in Nigeria. An Empirical Investigation

Posted: 5 Jan 2014

Professor Muhammad Tanko

Kaduna State University

Date Written: January 4, 2014

Abstract

The main objective of this paper is to establish whether or not the problem of audit expectation gap exist in Nigeria, and whether those areas of concern, (areas that brought about the misunderstanding between the public and the audit profession) could be identified and measures could be taken to either eliminate them or reduce them to the bearest minimum. To achieve this, the paper develops questionnaire based on the method used in the literature. The process ensures that data is collected for the public’s expectation on the issues of the expectation gap on the one hand, and then subsequently and side by side, we compare the issues with the audit authorities required or expected perception. The data collected was analyzed using a five-point likert type scale anchored by a five scale from “strongly disagree” to “strongly agree”. Furthermore, to test for the significant expectation gap between the two parties of respondents both the parametric and non parametric statistical tests were used. The paper found that there is expectation gap in the country as evidenced in the views of the respondents. The first issue investigated reveals that there is wide expectation gap between the views of the auditors and non auditors in terms of the quality of audit report. The inferential statistics which tests whether there is significant difference in the opinion of auditors and non-auditors on the improvement of company audit in Nigeria shows that there is significant difference in the mean opinion of auditors and non-auditors on the issues of the expectation gap. The paper therefore concluded that there is wide gap on the understanding of the role of the auditors by the public. Based on the findings of the paper, we recommended that there is the need for continued sensitization of the public, by both the auditing profession and other stake holders on the role and duties of the auditor to avoid unreasonable expectation by the public. Furthermore, there should be a system of monitoring the performance of the auditors in their audit work, so as to prevent underperformance of the work of the auditor. This could be achieved through the professional bodies. Although, there is mandatory professional training and points are earned by the auditors and professional members, there seems to be no enforcement or sanction on the part of the professional bodies on those members that do not comply.

Keywords: Auditor’s Perception, Public Perception, Audit Expectation Gap

Suggested Citation:

Tanko, Professor Muhammad, Audit Expectation Gap in Nigeria. An Empirical Investigation (January 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374744
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Political Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies