Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Big 4 Fee Premium’ and Audit Quality. Latest Evidence from UK Listed Companies

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 28, No. 8, 2013

Posted: 6 Jan 2014

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Using the most recent observations (2005-2011) from a sample of UK listed companies, this study investigates whether Big 4 audit firms exhibit a ‘fee premium’ and, if this is the case, whether the premium is related to the delivery of a better audit service.

Univariate tests, multivariate regressions and two methodologies that control for self-selection bias are used to answer the proposed research questions.

Findings provide consistent evidence about the existence of an ‘audit fee premium’ charged by Big 4 firms while they do not highlight any significant relationship between audit quality and type of auditor with respect to the audit quality proxies investigated.

This study joins two streams of the extant literature that investigate the existence of a ‘Big 4 audit fee premium’ and different audit quality among Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients. Evidence supports the concerns raised by the UK House of Lords in 2010 that the concentrated structure of the audit market could be the driver of ‘excessive’ fees for Big 4 clients as it does not highlight differences in audit quality between Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients.

Evidence from this paper might signal the need for legislative intervention to improve the competitiveness of the audit market as its actual concentrated structure is leading to ‘excessive’ fees for Big 4 clients. Findings might also enhance Big 4 client bargaining power. Analysing only one country, generalizability of the results might be a limitation.

Keywords: Audit fee premium, Big 4, Audit quality, Discretionary accruals, Accounting conservatism, Value relevance.

Suggested Citation:

Campa, Domenico, ‘Big 4 Fee Premium’ and Audit Quality. Latest Evidence from UK Listed Companies (2013). Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 28, No. 8, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374870
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies