Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Timing of Auditor Changes Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from the Initial Year of the Audit Engagement

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2014 Last revised: 23 May 2017

Cory A. Cassell

University of Arkansas

James C. Hansen

Weber State University Goddard School of Business and Economics

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

We focus on the first year of the auditor-client relationship and investigate whether audit quality varies with the timing of the new auditor’s appointment. We find that audit quality is not lower for companies that engage new auditors before the end of the third fiscal quarter than for companies that do not change auditors. However, companies that engage new auditors during or after the fourth fiscal quarter are more likely to misstate their audited financial statements than companies that engage new auditors earlier in the year and companies that do not change auditors. In additional tests, we find that the decrease in audit quality associated with late auditor changes is more pronounced for companies with complex operations (i.e., more operating segments). These results suggest that the extent to which audit quality suffers in the first year of audit engagements is affected by both the amount of time required to understand the client’s business, assess risks, and perform the audit (all of which are driven by client complexity), as well as the amount of time available for auditors to perform these tasks.

Keywords: audit quality; auditor changes; misstatements; auditor independence

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Cassell, Cory A. and Hansen, James C. and Myers, Linda A. and Seidel, Timothy A., Does the Timing of Auditor Changes Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from the Initial Year of the Audit Engagement (September 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2374162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J R Francis , M D Yu
Big 4 office size and audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1521 - 1552 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J M Franzel
Opening Remarks at the PCAOB Investor Advisory Group Meeting Posted: 2012-03-28
W Ge , S Mcvay
The disclosure of material weaknesses in internal control after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 137 - 158 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M A Geiger , K Raghunandan
Auditor tenure and audit reporting failures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
788
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,629
RANK
72,531
6 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies