Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Office-Client Balance and Metro Area Audit Market Competition

57 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2014 Last revised: 17 Jun 2020

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Matthew Sherwood

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 16, 2020

Abstract

We propose a new audit supplier competition construct: the Office-Client Balance (OCB), which consists of the relative abundance of suppliers (competing audit offices) and customers (audit clients) in a metropolitan (metro) area. From this construct, we derive a metro-level audit competition proxy reflecting surpluses or shortfalls of total metro audit office numbers relative to the national metro OCB norm: the OCB_TOT. Consistent with the predictions of Porter’s Five Forces theory, we find that this OCB competition variable is associated with lower fees, more auditor turnover, and more (less) office exits (entrances) in metro audit markets. These findings validate the OCB competition variable as a proxy for audit market competition. We then employ OCB_TOT to test a hypothesis about the relation between OCB competition and audit quality. Results indicate that greater metro-level competition among auditors (more positive OCB_TOT) is associated with higher audit quality, proxied by fewer instances of financial statement misstatements. Several additional analyses suggest that OCB_TOT is useful in explaining clients’ choices of local (versus remote) audit offices and Big 4 (versus non-Big4) offices.

Keywords: metro area, client auditor choice, Big 4, audit fees, audit quality, audit market competition, concentration, competition

JEL Classification: G18; L10; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ettredge, Michael L. and Sherwood, Matthew and Sun, Lili, Office-Client Balance and Metro Area Audit Market Competition (June 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2374377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,152
RANK
136,211
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies