Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Content of Auditor's Report as a Means of Fathom to Audit Expectation Gap in Nigeria

Posted: 7 Jan 2014

Professor Muhammad Tanko

Kaduna State University

Date Written: December 4, 2013

Abstract

Audit expectation gap is a phenomenon that presently attracts the attention of researchers all over the world. The basic problem is in the area of how the public perceives the role of the auditor, which in most cases centers on the prevention of fraud and irregularities. On the other hand the auditor and the auditing profession always exonerate themselves from the fact and perception of the public towards their work. However, the continued litigation against the auditor and the auditing profession has called on a rethink on the relationship of the auditor and the audit work he performs. This research therefore reviews the communication of the auditor to the public in form of the content of the auditor’s report to the public as the possible means of reducing if not eliminating the problem of the audit expectation gap. To achieve this, the study develops questionnaire based on the method used in the literature. The process ensures that data is collected for the public’s expectation on the issues of the expectation gap on the one hand, and then subsequently and side by side, we compare the issues with the auditors expected perception. The data collected was analyzed using a five-point likert type scale anchored by a five scale from “strongly disagrees” to “strongly agree”. Furthermore, to test for the significant difference in the audit expectation gap between the two parties of respondents both the parametric and non parametric statistical tests were used. In terms of the distribution of the questionnaire we used both the mailing approach and direct approach. The study presented the outcome of the research to show that there is expectation gap in the country as evidenced in the views of the respondents. Furthermore, improvement of the reports of the auditor has been recommended as a means of improving and or solving the problem of audit expectation gap in Nigeria.

Suggested Citation:

Tanko, Professor Muhammad, Improving the Content of Auditor's Report as a Means of Fathom to Audit Expectation Gap in Nigeria (December 4, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2375368
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies