Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adopting a New Auditing Standard: The Case of ISA 570–Based Going Concern Reporting in Sweden

35 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2014

Stefan Sundgren

Umea School of Business and Economics, Umeå University; University of Vaasa

Tobias Svanström

Umeå University; Norwegian School of Management (BI)

Date Written: January 10, 2014

Abstract

Auditing standards change regularly, but little is known about how audit firms implement new standards. A going concern standard based on ISA 570 came into effect in 2004 in Sweden, and we here study the temporal evolution of going concern reporting from 2004 to 2011. The likelihood that a going concern opinion had been issued prior to bankruptcy significantly increased with the time elapsed since the standard’s adoption. We examined whether this result is driven by learning or by changed perceptions regarding the cost of failing to modify the report, and we found support for both explanations. The finding that increased numbers of going concern opinions largely coincided with more disciplinary cases against auditors related to their going concern reporting suggests that revised perceptions about costs play a role.

Keywords: going concern, adoption of auditing standards, erroneous reporting, disciplinary sanctions, learning, audit-firm type

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sundgren, Stefan and Svanström, Tobias, Adopting a New Auditing Standard: The Case of ISA 570–Based Going Concern Reporting in Sweden (January 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2377169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2377169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,662
RANK
165,258
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies