Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Equity Incentives and Audit Fees

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2014 Last revised: 2 Jul 2014

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Haidan Li

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Date Written: January 13, 2014

Abstract

This study examines whether CEO equity incentives have an impact on audit pricing. Prior studies investigate whether CEO equity incentives motivate executives to manage earnings for personal financial gains. Our focus is on whether auditors perceive CEO equity incentives to be associated with greater earnings manipulation risk and incorporate such risk in their pricing decisions. We find that CEO equity portfolio vega is positively related to audit fees after controlling for other determinants of audit fees, while equity portfolio delta is not significantly related to audit fees. This result holds after we account for potential endogeneity. The evidence suggests that auditors are concerned about CEOs’ incentives to manage earnings because equity holdings tie CEOs’ wealth to risk and cause CEOs to be less risk-averse. The findings in our study improve our understanding of how executive compensation affects auditors’ pricing decisions.

Keywords: Equity Incentives, CEO Compensation, Audit Fees, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M41, M42, J33

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Li, Haidan and Li, Siqi, CEO Equity Incentives and Audit Fees (January 13, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2378477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2378477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement Posted: 2006
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
927
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,162
RANK
58,095
5 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies