Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues in Examining the Effect of Auditor Litigation on Audit Fees

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2014

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 12, 2014

Abstract

A large body of research has studied audit fees aiming to determine whether they reflect auditors’ response to clients’ risks, auditors’ expertise, competitive pressures in the audit market, and independence issues between auditors and clients. Badertscher, Jorgensen, Katz, and Kinney [2014] study the effect of auditor litigation risk on audit fees. Litigation risk is expected to be a strong incentive for auditors to deliver high quality audits and an important determinant of audit fees. Nevertheless, determining the impact of litigation risk is complicated because although there is considerable variation in audit fees, there are scarce opportunities to examine variation in litigation risk. This paper provides a brief summary of extant studies examining the effect of auditor litigation on audit fees, and discusses research design issues and future research opportunities in this area.

Keywords: Auditor litigation, audit fees, matching

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M44

Suggested Citation:

Minutti-Meza, Miguel, Issues in Examining the Effect of Auditor Litigation on Audit Fees (January 12, 2014). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2378001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Crossref
B ; S Badertscher , S Katz; , Rego
The separation of ownership and control and its impact on corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 228 - 50 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J ; J Choi , Kim; X , D Liu; , Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1429 - 63 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Davidoff
Debating the merits of the boom in merger lawsuits
NY Times Posted: 2013-03-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
918
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,879
RANK
58,933
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies