Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transaction Costs and Competition among Audit Firms in Local Markets

52 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2014 Last revised: 6 Jan 2017

Ling Chu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: January 5, 2017

Abstract

We develop a measure to capture an audit firm’s competitive position in a local audit market based on the transaction costs of changing audit firms included in DeAngelo’s (1981) multi-period audit pricing model. Our competition measure reflects the size difference between the largest audit firm in a market and the other audit firms operating in that market. We find that audit fees of client firm i decrease as this size difference increases. This result suggests that dominant audit firms charge higher audit fees because of their significant local competitive advantage over smaller audit firms. In addition, we show that the boundaries of audit markets are mainly specified by client industry at the city level. However, the size of operations of a dominant audit firm outside such markets can enhance its competitive advantage within a client-industry, city-level market. Our study provides a market-power-based explanation for the excess audit fees earned by the largest audit firm(s) in local audit markets and advances understanding of audit market competition.

Keywords: Audit pricing, competition, transaction costs

JEL Classification: M41, D40

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Ling and Simunic, Dan A. and Ye, Minlei and Zhang, Ping, Transaction Costs and Competition among Audit Firms in Local Markets (January 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2378039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2378039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
11 Citations
Hua Christine Xin , Bharat Sarrukai Sarath
Long-Term Trends in Audit Market Shares: Effects of BIG-4 Pricing Strategies or Non BIG-4 Market Power?
2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference · 59 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2014 · Last revised: 21 Jan 2016 · Downloads: 559
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ramamohan Rao
Strategic Choices of Firms to Achieve Dominance and Differentiation
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2017
Crossref
Juan Monterrey Mayoral , Amparo Sánchez Segura
Auditorías a demanda de la minoria societaria: un análisis empírico
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting / Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 242 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Jaehan Ahn
The Effects of Audit-Firm Monopolies within Local Audit Markets
Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3110936, · 62 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 18 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 314
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,155
RANK
248,130
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies