Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Group and Audit Fees in Chinese Firms

57 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Haiyan Zhou

University of Texas - Pan American

Ferdinand A. Gul

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Junxiong Fang

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: January 14, 2014

Abstract

Drawing on herding behavior theory, prior studies regarding the use of peers for investment decisions and compensation practices and the recent reports which suggest that firms use peer information for audit pricing, we examine the effect of peer groups on the audit pricing process of a sample of Chinese firms. Using observations for the years 2002-2012, and matching groups based on the Industry, Industry/Region, Industry/Big4 and Industry/Size to define peer group, we find that peer group information is used in audit pricing. We also find evidence that peer group information are more likely to be used in firms in low technology industry, less developed regions, and firms audited by non-Big 4 CPA firms compared to those in high technology industry, more developed regions, and firms audited by Big 4 CPA firms. Finally, we find that clients with lower audit fees than their peer groups in the previous period are more likely to increase audit fees in the current period. These are consistent with the herding theory that peer group information is most likely used in conditions when information asymmetry risk is high.

Keywords: audit fee, peer group, information asymmetry, audit clients, Big 4; Chinese firms

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Sami, Heibatollah and Zhou, Haiyan and Gul, Ferdinand A. and Fang, Junxiong, Peer Group and Audit Fees in Chinese Firms (January 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Anzhela , D Knyazeva , R Morck , B Yeung
Comovement in investment Posted: 2008
S Bikhchandani , D Hirshleifer , I Welch
A theory of fads, fashion, custom, cultural change as informational cascades
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 992 - 1026 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon , L Naveen
Does the use of peer groups contribute to higher pay and less efficient compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 90 , p. 52 - 168 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,949
RANK
416,133
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies