Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Control Yourself! The Impact of Self-Control on Auditors' Ability to Practice Professional Skepticism

Posted: 22 Jan 2014

Joleen Kremin

Portland State University

Date Written: January 21, 2014

Abstract

Do auditors who have impaired cognitive resources for self-control have a more difficult time being professionally skeptical? And if so, what impact does experience have? In this study I experiment with auditors at all levels of experience, testing them in a problem-solving task (analytical procedure) that requires evaluation of possible solutions and assessment of the associated risk of material misstatement. The act of professional skepticism requires individuals behave with a “questioning mind,” which requires cognitive resources. I suggest that professional skepticism is essentially an act of self-control. I posit that individuals who have depleted self-control resources have an impaired ability to correctly identify misstated accounts and increased risk aversion. Additionally, I posit that experience plays a moderating role, increasing the likelihood of optimal judgments, and that manipulation to client risk levels activates salient skeptical resources.

Keywords: Ego Depletion, Professional Skepticism

Suggested Citation:

Kremin, Joleen, Control Yourself! The Impact of Self-Control on Auditors' Ability to Practice Professional Skepticism (January 21, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2382823
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies