Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going-Concern Opinions, Corporate Control, Executive Compensation and Management Turnover

Posted: 1 Feb 2014 Last revised: 13 Feb 2014

Bill Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Ning Ren

University of Redlands

Yinghong Zhang

University of Central Oklahoma

Yun Zhu

St. John's University - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: September 2, 2013

Abstract

We investigate economic consequences of going-concern opinions in terms of corporate control, executive compensation and management turnover. We argue that announcement of going-concern opinions either decreases firm value or signals negatively to investors. Therefore, upon the announcement of these opinions, companies are motivated to go through organizational changes to strengthen monitoring and restore investors’ confidence. These organizational changes include modifications in corporate ownership, executive compensation and management turnover. Based on a sample period of 1995 – 2012 and using a difference-in-difference approach, we find that the existence of going-concern opinions results in decreases in ownerships of blockholders and institutional investors. In addition, the presence of these opinions decreases CEO compensation and increases subsequent turnovers of top managers and auditors. Our findings point out other adverse consequences of going-concern opinions besides declines in market value. Thus going-concern opinions might be useful for outside stakeholders to predict future organizational changes within companies.

Keywords: going-concern opinion; blockholder; institutional investor; executive compensation; management turnover

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Bill and Ren, Ning and Zhang, Yinghong and Zhu, Yun, Going-Concern Opinions, Corporate Control, Executive Compensation and Management Turnover (September 2, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2382600
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies