Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Probing the Discriminatory Power of Characteristics of Internal Audit Functions: Sorting the Wheat from the Chaff

International Journal of Auditing, October 2013

Posted: 26 Jan 2014

Rainer Lenz

Louvain School of Management (UCL)

Gerrit Sarens

Université Catholique de Louvain

Kenneth Edgar D'Silva

London South Bank University - Centre for Research in Accounting

Date Written: October 9, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to identify, examine and evaluate characteristics of an internal audit function (IAF) that help to distinguish between two groups of IAFs with sharply contrasting levels of perceived effectiveness. Based on survey data from 46 heads of internal audit (chief audit executives, CAEs) in private organizations in Germany, we differentiate IAFs that indicate varying and contrasting levels of internal auditing (IA) effectiveness. In doing so, this study plants the seeds for a potential general theory of IA effectiveness – a theory that may also have relevance in other countries. Extant theory highlights the multi-faceted aspects of IA effectiveness and these are considered in the study to sort its ‘wheat from the chaff’. We suggest four key dimensions or categorical blocks: organization, IA resources, IA processes and IA relationships. Within these dimensions, statistically valid discriminatory characteristics and features identified in the study include: the existence of an IA charter that is agreed by the board/audit committee (AC); possible career progression after a tenure in IA; some degree of co-sourcing and outsourcing of IA services; the level of training and professional qualification of IA staff and CAEs; the use of IA technology and risk-based IA; whether IA makes recommendations for improving the governance process and rates individual findings and grades the overall report; whether the CAE has appropriate access to the board/AC; whether the CAE benefits from senior management’s (SM) and the board/AC’s input to the IA plan; and the CAE’s informal contact with SM. Appropriately employed, a mix of these characteristics contribute to a theoretical grounding that may help explain IA effectiveness.

Keywords: IAF characteristics, discriminatory power, effectiveness, IA professional, self-assessment

JEL Classification: M10, M19

Suggested Citation:

Lenz, Rainer and Sarens, Gerrit and D'Silva, Kenneth Edgar, Probing the Discriminatory Power of Characteristics of Internal Audit Functions: Sorting the Wheat from the Chaff (October 9, 2013). International Journal of Auditing, October 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2384815
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies