Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Contracting and the Continuation as a Going Concern

47 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014 Last revised: 20 Mar 2015

Qing Burke

Miami University of Ohio

Amanda Convery

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Hollis Ashbaugh Skaife

Graduate School of Management, UC-Davis

Date Written: Febrary 28, 2015

Abstract

When there is separation between a firm’s managers and owners, there is a greater need for information about the firm’s ability to continue as a going concern as a violation of such implies shareholders are at risk of losing their equity in the firm. The going concern assumption is a fundamental concept of financial reporting because, when violated, financial statements are required to be prepared at liquidation values. We examine the public signals of going concern audit opinions, delisting decisions, and filing for bankruptcy to draw inferences on whether firms that are dependent on the government for revenue are more likely to continue as going concerns. We find that firms that earn more revenues from the government are less likely to receive going concern opinions, delist from a major stock exchange, or file for bankruptcy. We also find that the loss of government contracts in the subsequent year affects auditors’ assessment of going concern risk in the current year, but the likelihood of delisting or filing bankruptcy is not affected, suggesting managers do not signal changes in going concern risk induced by the loss of government contracts. We document that the market reacts more negatively to government contracting firms’ going concern opinions and delisting decisions relative to firms that do not earn revenue from the government. Our findings suggest that firms’ dependence on the government as a customer is important for managers to consider in adhering to new U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements addressing their firms’ continuation as a going concern.

Keywords: Going concern; Audit opinion; Delisting; Bankruptcy; Government contracting

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Qing and Convery, Amanda and Skaife, Hollis Ashbaugh, Government Contracting and the Continuation as a Going Concern (Febrary 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2388989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
T P Altman , Mcgough
Evaluation of a company as a going concern
Journal of Accountancy , volume 138 , issue 6 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1974
P C Austin
Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D W Banks , W R Kinney
The information content of unusual uncertainty reports: An empirical study
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 240 - 254 Posted: 1982
E Bartov , F Gul , J Tsui
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,234
RANK
210,213
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies