Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Audit Fee Responses in New Zealand

2014 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

35 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2014

Le Hoai Nam

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

This paper adapts the basic audit fee determination model of Simunic (1980) to examine whether there is a positive relationship between the level of earnings management (as evidenced by the magnitude of discretionary accruals) in the current year and the level of audit fees paid by firms in New Zealand in the next ensuing year. It is expected that in a self-regulatory, less independent and relatively small audit market like New Zealand, auditors may have had more incentives to compromise their independence in exchange for a more rewarding level of fees from their client firms. Based on a sample of 567 firm-years during the 2006-2010 periods, our results provide strong evidence for a positive relationship between the absolute level of discretionary accruals in the current year and the level of audit fees paid by an audit client in the next ensuing year. This result is also consistent with replicating regression procedures that use alternative measures of discretionary accruals as well as different groups of client firms. The findings make important contributions for regulators, investors and academic researchers.

Keywords: Earnings management, discretionary accruals, audit fees, auditor independence

Suggested Citation:

Nam, Le Hoai, Earnings Management and Audit Fee Responses in New Zealand (January 31, 2014). 2014 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2388579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Bedard , S M Chtourou , L Courteau
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J.-H Choi , C F Kim , J.-B Kim , Y Zang
Audit Office Size,Audit Quality, and Audit Pricing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 1 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,383
RANK
99,140
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies