Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Perceptions of Audit Firm Rotation Impact on Audit Quality in Egypt

Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 105-120

16 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2014

Ahmed Anis

Cairo University

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study aims to explore professional auditors’ perceptions of the impact of audit firm rotation on audit quality. It also investigates the possible benefits and determining factors of mandatory auditor rotation. A sample of 83 auditors was drawn from a group of large firms and another of smaller firms in Egypt. Data were analyzed using one sample t-test; the findings indicate that auditors’ perceived mandatory rotation of auditors to have a positive effect on audit quality, a negative effect on client-specific knowledge, and a positive impact on auditors’ independence. The impact from the auditors’ perspective of industry specialization and fee dependence on the relationship between mandatory auditor rotation and audit quality was also determined.

Keywords: Mandatory Auditor Rotation; Audit Quality; Auditor's Independence; Egypt

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Anis, Ahmed, Auditors' Perceptions of Audit Firm Rotation Impact on Audit Quality in Egypt (2014). Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 105-120, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Abdel-Meguid
Auditor Industry Specialization in A MENA Region Country: Lessons Learnt from Pricewaterhousecoopers -Egypt Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J F Brazel , T D Carpenter , J G Jenkins
Auditors' Use of Brainstorming In The Consideration Of Fraud: Reports from the Field
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1273 - 1301 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Auditing and Accounting Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,180
RANK
41,046
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies