Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Auditor Quality

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, May 2012

15 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2014

Savita Sahay

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - New Brunswick/Piscataway

Harry Zvi Davis

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Meyer Peikes

Touro University

Date Written: March 5, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship between a firm’s demand for different quality auditors and opportunities for earnings management.In our model, the firm simultaneously chooses the bias it introduces into its pre-audited earnings and the quality of its auditor. We show that firms that choose a high level of bias also choose a low-quality auditor, even though the market-maker makes a correction for the level of residual bias in audited reports. Firms that choose a low level of bias choose a high-quality auditor. We also study the effect of changes in the regulatory environment on the market equilibrium. Our analysis shows that stricter regulation leads to more firms choosing low-quality auditors, thus it is not in the interest of high quality auditors to support such measures.

Keywords: Audit quality, Earnings management, Accounting standards, Information precision, Bias, Auditor choice

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Sahay, Savita and Davis, Harry Z. and Peikes, Meyer, Earnings Management and Auditor Quality (March 5, 2012). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, May 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M W Nelson , J A Elliott , R L Tarpley
Evidence from auditors about managers'and auditors' earnings-management decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 175 - 202 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D P Newman , E Patterson , J R Smith
The role of auditing in investorprotection
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 289 - 313 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Pae , S-W Yoo
Strategic interaction in auditing: An analysis of auditors' legalliability, internal control system quality, and audit effort
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 333 - 356 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Z V Palmrose
Audit fees and auditor size: Further evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 97 - 110 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,763
RANK
163,928
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies