Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Non-Strategic Risk of Error on Auditor Sensitivity to Managers’ Reporting Incentives in a Multi-Account Setting

27 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2014 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Kendall Bowlin

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 2016

Abstract

We examine the effects of making multiple contemporaneous risk assessments on auditor sensitivity to the strategic and non-strategic risk related to managers’ financial reporting decisions. We address our research question using a 2x2 between-subjects experiment conducted under the tenets of experimental economics in a multi-account setting. We manipulate whether the two accounts differ in non-strategic risk. We find that when auditors allocate audit resources among accounts that differ in the non-strategic risk of error, auditors will use that difference as a heuristic basis for allocating resources among the accounts, and they will be relatively insensitive to strategic aspects of the audit including the client managers’ financial reporting incentives. However, when financial statement accounts do not differ in non-strategic risk, auditor resource allocations are more sensitive to strategic information such as managers’ penalties for detected misreporting. Consistent with the neglect of probability literature in psychology, we also find that even when auditors attend to managers’ incentives, they do not respond as predicted by game theory but instead increase audit effort when managers’ face large penalties for misreporting compared to when those penalties are more modest. This study is of interest to accounting academics, auditors, and regulators.

Keywords: Experimental Economics, Fraud Risk, Strategic Reasoning, Audit Resource Allocation, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M420

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Bowlin, Kendall O., The Effect of Non-Strategic Risk of Error on Auditor Sensitivity to Managers’ Reporting Incentives in a Multi-Account Setting (March 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2391268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2003
Risk Assessment Standards. Statements on Auditing Standards Nos. 104 -111 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Baron
Thinking and Deciding Posted: 2000
J Baron , L Granato , M Spranca , E Teubal
Decision-making biases in children and early adolescents: Exploratory studies
Merrill-Palmer Quarterly , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 46 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
RANK
253,661
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies