Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loss Aversion, Audit Risk Judgments, and Auditor Liability

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2014

Jochen Bigus

Free University Berlin, Department Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 11, 2014

Abstract

I investigate how different legal regimes affect auditor’s effort and investors’ investment decisions when the auditor is subject to probability weighting and loss aversion, which are two important characteristics of Prospect Theory. Probability weighting encourages an auditor to overrate the audit risk and the likelihood of damages leading to inflated audit fees which could help to explain the BigN audit fee premium. With loss aversion, an auditor is sensitive to the risk of damage compensation and, thus, tends to exert excessive caution which also generates excessive audit fees. Consequently, investors may choose not to hire an auditor and, as a result, may forego an otherwise profitable investment. These effects are more intense with a strict liability regime than with a negligence rule because with the latter, the auditor is not held liable when due care has been exerted. This removes the risk of incurring losses. The paper highlights the robustness of the negligence regime when preferences are unobservable.

Keywords: auditor liability, audit risk, probability weighting, loss aversion, negligence rule

JEL Classification: M42, K13, D81

Suggested Citation:

Bigus, Jochen, Loss Aversion, Audit Risk Judgments, and Auditor Liability (February 11, 2014). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M Abdellaoui
Parameter-free elicitation of utilities and probability weighting functions
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 11 , p. 1497 - 1512 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Bigus
Vague auditing standards and ambiguity aversion
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Brooks , H Zank
Loss averse behavior
Journal of Risk & Uncertainty , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 301 - 325 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Chan , S Pae
An analysis of the economic consequences of the proportionate liability rule
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 457 - 480 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,850
RANK
212,384
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies