Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Audit Quality in Rights Offerings

ISSN:1467-629X Accounting and finance

44 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2014 Last revised: 12 Nov 2018

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Robert W. Faff

Corvinus University Budapest; University of Queensland; Bond University

Lily Nguyen

The University of Queensland - UQ Business School

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Date Written: November 12, 2018

Abstract

Using audit quality as our core focus, we take a fresh look at the tradability and standby status in rights offerings, and the market reaction during the subscription period in the US market. We find that firms with high audit quality are more likely to choose tradable or full standby rights issues. We also find that the subscription period price reaction is positively related to audit quality and negatively related to issue price discount. These results demonstrate an important role played by the choice of auditors in the design of rights offerings, particularly in mitigating the negative price reaction during the subscription period.

Keywords: rights offerings, transferability, standby status, audit quality, audit fee, Big 6 Auditors

JEL Classification: G13, G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Balachandran, Balasingham and Faff, Robert W. and Nguyen, Lily and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth, The Impact of Audit Quality in Rights Offerings (November 12, 2018). ISSN:1467-629X Accounting and finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2396692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2396692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B Balachandran , R Faff , M Theobald
Rights offering, take up, and underwriting status
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , p. 328 - 346 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Balachandran , R Faff , M Theobald , T Van Zijl
Rights offering, subscription period, shareholder take up and liquidity
Journal of Financial and Quantitative analysis , volume 47 , p. 213 - 239 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Balachandran , S Kanapathippillai , C Krishnamurti , E Velayutham , M Theobald
The issuance of warrants in rights offerings: agency costs and signaling effects
Australian Journal of Management , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 608 - 636 Posted: 2017
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,454
RANK
478,514
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies