Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Public-Client Specialization and Client Abnormal Accruals

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2014

Kim Ittonen

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Emma-Riikka Myllymäki

Audencia Business School

Date Written: January 13, 2014

Abstract

We examine the association of Big 4 audit partners’ public-client specialization with client companies’ audit quality. Using a sample of NASDAQ OMX companies in Finland, we identify the audit partner assigned to each public-client engagement. We expect that partners with greater public-client specialization provide higher quality auditing, since they have likely developed deep domain-specific knowledge and a keen sense of the litigation and reputational risks posed by public clients. In addition, the willingness to resist client pressure likely increases with the number of public clients in the partner’s portfolio because dependence on any one client diminishes, which should help to ensure audit quality. The results show that public-client specialization is negatively associated with abnormal accruals, and this result is attributable to audit partners with three to six public clients. The results of supplemental tests imply that public-client specialization is more important when general auditing experience is lower. Further, the results reveal that in our setting of high-tax and high alignment between financial reporting and tax reporting, greater public-client specialization is particularly associated with smaller income-decreasing abnormal accruals, suggesting that auditors with greater public-client specialization likely recognize the downside reputational implications and achieve audit quality by discouraging tax avoidance.

Keywords: Audit Partner Specialization, Audit Quality, Abnormal Accruals

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ittonen, Kim and Zehms, Karla M. and Myllymäki, Emma-Riikka, Audit Partner Public-Client Specialization and Client Abnormal Accruals (January 13, 2014). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality, The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C Becker , M Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Kris Hardies , Clive Lennox , Bing Li
Gender Discrimination? Evidence from the Belgian Public Accounting Profession
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 27 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 1 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 449
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brant E. Christensen , Nathan J. Newton , Michael S. Wilkins
How Do Team Workloads and Team Staffing Affect the Audit? Archival Evidence from U.S. Audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming · 61 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 7 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marek Kacer , Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg , Michael J. Peel , Nicholas Wilson
Are Measures of an Audit Firm's Competitive Position in Local Markets Robust?
34 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 96
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Linette Rousseau , Karla M. Zehms
It’s a Matter of Style: The Role of Audit Firms and Audit Partners in Key Audit Matter Reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 1,343
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
241,875
11 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies