Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Fraud, Auditing and the Role of Government Sanctions in China

Journal of Business Research, Vol. 68, Issue 6, pp.1186-1195, 2015

42 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2014 Last revised: 12 Mar 2015

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Sabatino Silveri

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Yanheng Song

Zhejiang University

Kun Wang

Tsinghua University

Date Written: February 1, 2014

Abstract

We use the unique economic, legal, and political landscape of China to examine the impact of auditors on the incidence and consequences of accounting fraud. In particular, we examine whether large audit firms reduce the incidence of financial statement fraud in China, an emerging market in which auditors face strong government sanctions but low litigation risk associated with audit failures. We find companies audited by large audit firms are less likely to commit financial statement fraud. This effect is stronger for regulated industries, consistent with heavier government monitoring in such industries. This effect is also stronger for revenue-related frauds, consistent with heavier government sanctions for such frauds. After excluding firms cross-listing in other jurisdictions, our results remain robust. Our results are also robust to considering the severity of fraud, using alternative measures of fraud, accounting for the self-selection of auditors and controlling for other corporate governance mechanisms. Our results highlight the role of government sanctions in assuring audit quality and have important practical implications to help international audit firms – and businesses more generally – successfully compete in China.

Keywords: auditor size, financial statement fraud, government sanction, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Lisic, Ling Lei and Silveri, Sabatino and Song, Yanheng and Wang, Kun, Accounting Fraud, Auditing and the Role of Government Sanctions in China (February 1, 2014). Journal of Business Research, Vol. 68, Issue 6, pp.1186-1195, 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2402330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
K C W Chen , H Yuan
Earnings management and capital resource allocation: evidence from China's accounting-based regulation of rights issues
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 645 - 665 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L R Davis , B S Soo , G M Trometer
Auditor tenure and the ability to meet or beat earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 517 - 548 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L E Deangelo
Auditor Size and Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
M L Defond , T J Wong , Li , S
The impact of improved auditor independence on audit market concentration in China
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 305 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
904
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,713
RANK
60,173
6 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies