Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning the 'Craft' of Auditing: A Dynamic View of Auditors' On-the-Job Learning

50 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2014

Kim Westermann

Cal Poly San Luis Obispo

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Christine E. Earley

Providence College -School of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

We investigate how auditors learn the technical aspects of their professional role while performing client engagements, and how that learning process has been shaped by changes in societal, economic and regulatory forces. Prior studies explicitly recognize that auditors need social skills and demeanor consistent with professional norms as well as requisite knowledge, but those studies generally focus on the processes through which new auditors are molded toward consistency with social norms. In contrast, we focus on forces affecting the transfer of technical knowledge from supervisor (guide) to subordinate (learner) in the everyday work setting. Our evidence derives from semi-structured interviews with 30 relatively new and more experienced audit partners at one Big 4 firm, thus spanning multiple "generations" of experience. Results confirm that auditors primarily acquire technical knowledge on the job, through the interactions among individual engagement team members. However, partners express concern about changes in the practice environment that may limit effectiveness of on-the-job learning, including characteristics of personnel, the approach to formal training at induction, supervisors' reluctance to provide candid feedback, regulatory and economic pressures, and the increased distraction and reduced interpersonal contact associated with use of information technology. At the end of the day, our findings raise implications for practice regarding the difficulty of developing effective learning conditions for auditors in the face of these challenges.

Keywords: Auditing, Learning, Apprenticeship, Personnel development

JEL Classification: M42, D83, M14, M53

Suggested Citation:

Westermann, Kimberly and Bedard, Jean C. and Earley, Christine E., Learning the 'Craft' of Auditing: A Dynamic View of Auditors' On-the-Job Learning (March 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2404029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Alvehus , A Spicer
Financialization as a strategy of workplace control in professional service firms
Critical Perspectives in Accounting , volume 23 , p. 497 - 510 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Making up accountants: The organizational and professional socialization of trainee chartered accountants Posted: 1998
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: Organizational time-reckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,462
RANK
102,135
67 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies