Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Benefits and Costs of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(B) Exemption: Evidence from Small Firms’ Internal Control Disclosures

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2014 Last revised: 9 Feb 2017

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Date Written: January 4, 2017

Abstract

Thousands of publicly traded U.S. firms are exempt from auditor oversight of internal control effectiveness disclosures (Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002). We provide initial estimates of the measurable benefits and costs of this exemption. We measure the benefit of exemption with audit fee savings, which we estimate to be an aggregate $388 million from 2007 through 2014 for our sample of exempt firms. The key concern of exemption is internal control misreporting (IC misreporting; i.e., firms with ineffective internal controls erroneously disclosing effective internal controls). We estimate that 9.3 percent of exempt firms are IC misreporters, and that 404(b) compliance would lower this IC misreporting to 5.8 percent. IC misreporting imposes at least two measurable costs on current and prospective shareholders: lower operating performance due to non-remediation, and market values that fail to reflect a firm’s underlying internal control status. We calculate the cost of 404(b) exemption from 2007 through 2014 to be an aggregate $719 million in lower future earnings due to non-remediation, and a $935 million delay in aggregate market value decline due to the failure to disclose ineffective internal controls. Although the measurable costs of exemption exceed the measurable benefits, the audit fee savings benefit shareholders of all exempt firms, whereas costs are borne by shareholders of only a fraction of exempt firms (the IC misreporters). In addition to providing initial evidence on measurable benefits and costs of internal control disclosure regulation, our study provides a tool for identifying the firms most at risk of inaccurately disclosing internal control effectiveness.

Keywords: internal controls over financial reporting; disclosure accuracy; non-accelerated filers; Section 404

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Weili and Koester, Allison and McVay, Sarah E., Benefits and Costs of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(B) Exemption: Evidence from Small Firms’ Internal Control Disclosures (January 4, 2017). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2405187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2405187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Doyle , W Ge , S Mcvay
Accruals quality and internal control over financial reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 1141 - 1170 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Determinants of weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 193 - 223 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Erickson , M Hanlon , E Maydew
How much will firms pay for earnings that do not exist? Evidence of taxes paid on allegedly fraudulent earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 408 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Fama , K French
Industry cost of equity
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 193 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
811
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,313
RANK
69,987
11 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies