Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Rotation and Financial Reporting Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2014

Barri Litt

Nova Southeastern University - H. Wayne Huizenga School of Business & Entrepreneurship

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Thuy H. Simpson

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Paul Tanyi

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 6, 2014

Abstract

Audit partner rotation has received considerable attention globally and in the U.S. since the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 accelerated the rotation period from seven to five years and expanded the cooling-off period from two to five years. However, research on the effects of audit partner rotation on financial reporting quality in the U.S. is virtually non-existent, largely due to the absence of publicly available information on audit partners. Using a novel approach to determine audit partner rotation, we investigate the effect of rotation on financial reporting quality in the U.S. We find evidence of lower financial reporting quality following an audit partner change. Specifically, we find lower financial reporting quality during the first two years with a new audit partner relative to the final two years with the outgoing partner. We find the lower financial reporting quality to be more prevalent for larger clients. Further analyses suggest the initial year post-rotation presents audit challenges for Big 4 partners, which persist for at least three years for non-Big 4 partners. Audit challenges also appear greater for city-level non-industry specialist auditors and smaller audit offices. We discuss the implications of our results for regulators, policymakers, and the profession at large.

Keywords: Audit Quality; Earnings Management; Financial Reporting Quality; Discretionary Accruals; Meet or Beat; Partner Rotation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Litt, Barri and Sharma, Divesh Shankar and Simpson, Thuy H. and Tanyi, Paul, Audit Partner Rotation and Financial Reporting Quality (March 6, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2405483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1978. Division for CPA Firms SEC Practice Section Peer Review Manual
AICPA). 1992. Statement of position regarding mandatory rotation of audit firms of publicly held companies
File No. S7-49-02 Proposed Rule: Strengthening the Commission's Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence. Comment letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,766
RANK
42,743
15 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies