Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Influence on Auditor Selection and Subsequent Impairments of Auditor Independence During the Post-SOX Period

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Mar 2014

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Landon M. Mauler

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 24, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of management over auditor selection decisions during a period in which audit committees have “direct responsibility” for auditor selection. We find that contrary to the intent of SOX, management appears to retain significant influence over auditor selection in the subset of companies that select Big 4 auditors and this is not mitigated by higher quality audit committees. As SOX presumes that management influence over auditor selection leads to negative outcomes, we also examine the impact that management influence on auditor selection has on proxies for subsequent auditor independence during the post-SOX period. We find no consistent evidence that audit quality is different for companies whose managers appeared to influence auditor selection, where audit quality is measured by the propensity to issue going concern opinions, the propensity to meet or just beat analyst earnings forecasts and abnormal accruals. We also find no consistent evidence that the quality of the audit committee influences the relationship between audit quality and management influence on auditor selection.

Keywords: auditor independence, auditor selection, sarbanes-oxley act, affiliations

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Lennox, Clive and Mauler, Landon M., Management Influence on Auditor Selection and Subsequent Impairments of Auditor Independence During the Post-SOX Period (February 24, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406784
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,023
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies