Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Committee and Characteristics of Board of Directors Influence Earnings Management?

38 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2014

Jag Pathak PhD, CPA, CGA, CFF, CFE, CISA

University of Windsor - Odette School of Business

Khondkar Karim

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Sang-Hyun Suh

Syracuse University; University of Massachusetts Lowell

Xiang Ziwen

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

Earnings management has attracted much attention in this globalized economic environment due to large accounting scandals such as Enron and WorldCom. National governments and other market-regulation institutions are taking measures to restrain earnings management in order to ensure the reliability and transparency of financial reporting. This study explores whether audit committees and boards of directors influence earnings management using the literary review method. The findings show that both discretionary accruals and abnormal accruals are mostly used as dependent variables to detect earnings manipulation estimated by the Jones and Modified Jones Models. For the most part, evidence from previous literatures indicates that the more independent the members of the audit committee and board, the higher the quality of earnings in financial reporting. However, some opposite findings exist.

Keywords: earnings management, audit committee independence, board of directors, discretionary accruals, modified Jones model

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pathak Phd, CPA, CGA, CFF, CFE, CISA, Jagdish and Karim, Khondkar and Suh, Sang-Hyun and Suh, Sang-Hyun and Ziwen, Xiang, Do Audit Committee and Characteristics of Board of Directors Influence Earnings Management? (March 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2406080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anwer S. Ahmed , Scott Duellman , Ahmed M. Abdel-Meguid
The Sarbanes Oxley Act, Auditor Independence and Accounting Accruals: An Empirical Analysis
Pages: 38 Posted: 10 Mar 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,299
RANK
84,371
4 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies