Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Public Oversight of Auditors Effective? The Impact of Sanctions on Loss of Clients, Salary and Audit Reporting

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2014 Last revised: 15 Jun 2016

Stefan Sundgren

Umea School of Business and Economics, Umeå University; University of Vaasa

Tobias Svanström

Umeå University; Norwegian School of Management (BI)

Date Written: June 15, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the consequences of sanctions against individual Swedish auditors issued by the Supervisory Board of Public Accountants (SBPA). The results provide no support for individual auditor client loss after receiving a sanction. However, we find that Big 4 auditors have a lower salary after the sanction than before. Finally, we do not find that auditors become more conservative in their reporting after being sanctioned. Collectively, our results support that public oversight sanctions have relatively limited consequences for auditors of private companies.

Keywords: public oversight, disciplinary sanctions, individual auditors, salary, client losses, auditor reporting

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Sundgren, Stefan and Svanström, Tobias, Is the Public Oversight of Auditors Effective? The Impact of Sanctions on Loss of Clients, Salary and Audit Reporting (June 15, 2016). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Abdel-Khalik
The jointness of audit fees and the demand for MAS: A Self-selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 295 - 322 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A I Bankley , D S Kerr , C E Wiggins
A Content Analysis of CPA Firms' Correspondence Following PCAOB inspections 2004-2010
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 74 - 89 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V Beattie , V Fearnley
Audit market competition: auditor change and the impact of tendering
The British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 289 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Marie-Laure Vandenhaute , Kris Hardies , Diane Breesch
Professional and Commercial Incentives in Audit Firms: Evidence on Partner Compensation
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 58 Pages · Posted: 30 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 205
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ann Vanstraelen , Lei Zou
PCAOB Inspections and Audit Fees: An Analysis of Inspection Rounds of Small Audit Firms
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 58 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
401,129
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies