Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Audit-Related Earnings Revisions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2014 Last revised: 26 Oct 2017

Jacob Haislip

Texas Tech University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Susan Scholz

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the consequences that auditors and their clients face when earnings announced in an unaudited earnings release are subsequently revised, presumably as a result of year-end audit procedures, so that earnings as reported in the 10-K differ from earnings as previously announced. Specifically, we examine whether the likelihood of an auditor ‘losing the client’ is greater following such revisions, and whether the likelihood of dismissal is influenced by revisions that more negatively impact earnings, that cause the client to miss important earnings benchmarks, by greater local auditor competition, or by auditor characteristics. We also examine audit pricing subsequent to audit-related earnings revisions for evidence of pricing concessions to retain the client. Finally, we examine whether client executives experience a greater likelihood of turnover following an audit-related earnings revision, and whether this varies by the type of revision. Consistent with expectations, we find that auditor dismissals are more likely following audit-related earnings revisions. We also find that dismissals are more likely when revisions cause clients to miss important benchmarks and when there is greater local auditor competition. Among non-dismissing clients, we find that future audit fees are lower when the effect of the revision on earnings is more negative, consistent with auditors offering price concessions to retain clients when revisions are more displeasing. We also find a greater likelihood of future chief financial officer (CFO) turnover as the effect of the revision worsens. Our findings offer important insights into the consequences that auditors face when balancing their responsibility for high audit quality and client satisfaction, as well as into the consequences that CFOs face when releasing inflated but not fully audited earnings.

Keywords: auditor independence, earnings revisions, auditor changes

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Haislip, Jacob and Myers, Linda A. and Scholz, Susan and Seidel, Timothy A., The Consequences of Audit-Related Earnings Revisions (December 1, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2409281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2409281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E M Bamber , L S Bamber
Discussion of: Mandatory audit partner rotation, audit quality, and market perception: Evidence from Taiwan
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 402 Posted: 2009
Crossref
______ ______ , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 12 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
M H Bazerman , G Loewenstein , D A Moore
Why good accountants do bad audits
Harvard Business Review , volume 80 , issue 11 , p. 96 - 103 Posted: 2002
Load more
18 Citations
Steven M. Glover , James C. Hansen , Timothy A. Seidel
How has the Change in the Way Auditors Determine the Audit Report Date Changed the Meaning of the Audit Report Date? Implications for Academic Research
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory · 65 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2015 · Last revised: 6 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 1,648
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Godsell , Ugur Lel , Darius P. Miller
U.S. National Security and De-Globalization
Journal of International Business Studies · 47 Pages · Posted: 23 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 752
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zvi Singer , Jing Zhang
Do Companies Engage in Auditor Shopping to Conceal Misreporting? Evidence from Financial Misstatements
https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12562 · 61 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 27 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 326
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eunice Khoo , Youngdeok Lim , Gary S. Monroe
Corporate Reputation and the Timeliness of External Audit and Earnings Announcement
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 24, Issue 3, pp. 366-395, 2020 · 30 Pages · Posted: 6 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,315
RANK
170,582
18 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies