Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Rates and Compliance: A Field Experiment in Long-Term Care

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 14-038/V

24 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2014

Maarten Lindeboom

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam; Tinbergen Institute Amsterdam; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Bas van der Klaauw

VU University Amsterdam - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Tinbergen Institute

Sandra Vriend

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, School of Business and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 18, 2014

Abstract

We provide evidence from a large-scale field experiment on the causal effects of audit rules on compliance in a market for long-term care. In this setting care should be provided quickly and, therefore, the gatekeeper introduced ex-post auditing. Our results do not show significant effects of variations in random audit rates and switching to a conditional audit regime on the quantity and quality of applications for care. We also do not find evidence for heterogeneous effects across care providers differing in size or hospital status. Our preferred explanation for the lack of audit effects is the absence of direct sanctions for noncompliance. The observed divergence of audit rates in the conditional audit regime is the consequence of sorting and thus identifies the quality of application behavior of providers.

Keywords: auditing, field experiment, compliance, feedback, long-term care

JEL Classification: C93, H51, I18

Suggested Citation:

Lindeboom, Maarten and van der Klaauw, Bas and Vriend, Sandra, Audit Rates and Compliance: A Field Experiment in Long-Term Care (March 18, 2014). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 14-038/V, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2411948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2411948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: Lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Alm , M Mckee
Extending the lessons of laboratory experiments on tax compliance to managerial and decision economics
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 19 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 259 - 275 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,563
RANK
682,707
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies