Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subjectivity in Fair Value Estimates, Audit Quality and Informativeness of Other Comprehensive Income

Advances in Accounting Volume 29, Issue 2, Pages 171-350 (December 2013)

Posted: 2 Apr 2014

Cheol Lee

Wayne State University

Myung Seok Park

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - School of Business

Date Written: October 17, 2013

Abstract

This study empirically examines whether difference in audit quality is reflected in the pricing of other comprehensive income (OCI). Specifically, we first investigate whether OCI measures of Big 4 clients are more-value relevant than those of non-Big 4 clients. Considering different degrees of subjective management judgment involved in OCI reporting process, we then explore whether the differential valuation effect of OCI between Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients is more pronounced for more subjective OCI components (e.g., minimum pension liability and foreign currency translation adjustment) than less subjective component (e.g., marketable securities adjustment). We predict that aggregate OCI of a Big 4 auditor is more value-relevant than that of a non-Big 4 auditor. We also hypothesize that the differential valuation effect between Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients can be attributable to the amount of subjective assumption and judgment required in estimating the OCI. Consistent with our predictions, we find that aggregate OCI audited by a Big 4 auditor has incremental information content over earnings, compared to OCI audited by a non-Big 4 auditor. Our results also show that the differential valuation effect between Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients is stronger for OCI components with more subjective nature.

Keywords: Other Comprehensive Income, Audit Quality, Subjectivity in Fair Value Estimate

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Cheol and Park, Myung Seok, Subjectivity in Fair Value Estimates, Audit Quality and Informativeness of Other Comprehensive Income (October 17, 2013). Advances in Accounting Volume 29, Issue 2, Pages 171-350 (December 2013) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418302
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,699
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies