Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client-Based Measure of the Audit Office Reputation and Its Association with Audit Fees, Earnings Quality, and Client’s Market Value

Posted: 1 Apr 2014

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

Rachana Kalelkar

University of Houston - Victoria

Date Written: March 31, 2014

Abstract

Following the findings from marketing and management literature on corporate reputation, we develop a new proxy to measure the audit office reputation and examine the impact of this measure on audit fees and audit quality. We argue that the presence of reputable clients and their tenure with the audit office is an unbiased and strong testimony for audit office reputation. Following this argument, we use the proximity of clients to the S&P 500 Index and Fortune’s List of Most Admired Companies, weighted by the tenure of the audit office-client relationship, to estimate our client-based audit office reputation measure (CBAR). For a sample of 3,233 audit firm clients we find that our measure of audit office reputation is positively associated with audit fees and audit quality (proxied by absolute discretionary accruals, meet-or-beat-earnings expectations, and restatements). We also show that the earnings of clients from audit offices with higher CBAR are valued higher, suggesting that the market perceives the reputation of such offices to be higher and the earnings of their clients to be more credible. This research is important since CBAR is a new and readily available measure of audit office quality that provides incremental explanatory power for audit fees and audit quality beyond previously available measures.

Keywords: Audit office reputation, client reputation, audit fees, audit quality, market value

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Kalelkar, Rachana, Client-Based Measure of the Audit Office Reputation and Its Association with Audit Fees, Earnings Quality, and Client’s Market Value (March 31, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418484
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies