Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Bonding Fails: Audit Firm Oversight of US-Listed Chinese Companies

58 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2014 Last revised: 4 Apr 2014

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Brian Todd Carver

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Terry L. Neal

University of Tennessee

Date Written: March 30, 2014

Abstract

Although "good" companies have incentives to signal their types by listing in the strict regulatory environment of the US, there have been an unprecedented number of recent accounting frauds by US-listed Chinese companies. We argue that the traditional bonding argument failed for US-listed Chinese companies due to a lack of audit quality and audit firm oversight. We find: 1) that US-listed Chinese companies were more likely than US-listed companies from other countries to avoid hiring high quality annually-inspected US audit firms, and 2) that investors reacted negatively to news that US regulators would be unable to provide oversight of Chinese auditors.

Keywords: Audit quality, Audit firm oversight, PCAOB inspections, Chinese companies, Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Carver, Brian Todd and Lennox, Clive and Neal, Terry L., When Bonding Fails: Audit Firm Oversight of US-Listed Chinese Companies (March 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L A Aguilar
Speech at Council of Institutional Investors, Spring Meeting Posted: 2011-04-04
Crossref
James S. Ang , Zhiqian Jiang , Chaopeng Wu
Good Apples, Bad Apples: Sorting Among Chinese Companies Traded in the US
Pages: 42 Posted: 20 Mar 2012 Last revised: 14 Jun 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W R Baber , K R Kumar , T Verghese
Client security price reactions to the Laventhol and Horwath bankruptcy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 385 - 395 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Raymond Reed Baker , Gary C. Biddle , Michelle Lowry , Neale Gilbert O'Connor , Neale Gilbert O'Connor
Shades of Gray: Internal Control Reporting by Chinese U.S.-listed Firms
Pages: 49 Posted: 19 Jun 2012 Last revised: 10 Jun 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
679
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,983
RANK
87,994
12 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies