Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Against Auditors

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willeken, 2013

Posted: 12 Apr 2014

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Auditors are subject to litigation exposure under federal securities laws and under state law. Research into auditors’ liability under federal securities laws tends to make use of publicly available data from class action suits to examine factors associated with the incidence of litigation against auditors, the extent to which the legal merits of the case influence incidence and outcomes of those cases, and the impact of legal reform on litigation against auditors. State law does not generally allow class actions suits, so public data are not available. Research in this area focuses on understanding the process by which jurors and judges assess auditor blame for client misstatements. It considers similar issues, including the extent to which the merits of the case versus legally irrelevant factors impact the resolution of the case. Market-based experiments examine the effects of various legal regimes on auditor and social welfare. We summarize research results in these areas and identify important areas for future research, including examining the effects of potential decreases in auditor liability on social welfare, deepening our understanding of the conditions under which the merits of the case are appropriately reflected in case outcomes, and improving our understanding of how parties determine whether to settle and how juries set damage awards.

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Kadous, Kathryn and McInnis, John M., Litigation Against Auditors (2013). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willeken, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423355
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies