Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Auditing Research

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014.

Posted: 11 Apr 2014

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Marleen Willekens

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL)

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

This chapter reviews key issues for future auditing research that is relevant to the future of auditing. We reflect on key issues for future research including audit quality; auditor independence; regulation; audit markets; auditing and governance; and auditing of private companies. We review issues that appear to have been under-researched, and we provide a concluding discussion of auditor judgment and decision making issues.

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Knechel, Warren Robert and Willekens, Marleen, The Future of Auditing Research (January 31, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423232
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,941
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies