Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Oversight and Inspection of Auditing

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Apr 2014

Mona Offermanns

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting and Information Management

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Date Written: April 11, 2014

Abstract

One of the major changes in audit regulation of the past decade relates to the system of audit oversight. In response to high-profile corporate financial reporting scandals, the US set the tone by creating the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in 2002 and thereby putting an end to self-regulation of the auditing profession, which had been the dominant model for many decades. Subsequently, many other countries followed the US example of installing independent public oversight in varying forms and stages of development. The central aim of independent audit regulators is to enhance protection of investors and the public interest through audit oversight, enforcement and improvements in audit quality. Despite the potential merits of public oversight, it cannot be denied that corporate scandals continue to occur across the globe and that regulators continue to be under pressure especially in the aftermath of the financial crisis and the current economic downturn. Hence, the core mission of oversight bodies seems far from completed. In this chapter, we introduce public oversight by providing an overview of the development and current challenges, a summary of research findings and outstanding issues for future research.

Keywords: Public oversight, inspections, auditing profession

Suggested Citation:

Offermanns, Mona and Vanstraelen, Ann, Oversight and Inspection of Auditing (April 11, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423940
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies