Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Function of Auditing

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014

Posted: 10 Apr 2014

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Marleen Willekens

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL)

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

What is the function of auditing, and why is it important? In recent decades there have been a series of financial disasters, affecting thousands, if not millions, of people, many of whom have lost their life savings, and which have destroyed once successful companies, further damaging the economy. Enron, WorldCom, Parmalat and Lehman Brothers are oft-cited examples of what can happen when auditors are alleged to have failed at their job. The function of auditing is not to prevent those disasters, but to help ensure that stakeholders have reliable information on which to base their decisions and possibly foresee how such disasters may arise. Where that information later proves to be unreliable, auditors may be implicated for failing in their duties, allowing bad situations to get worse, and the damage caused by financial reporting misstatements to carry on.

In this book we cover some of the most important issues in twenty-first century auditing, with a focus on what is known from research, and what can be done to improve auditing. In this first chapter, we examine the most fundamental auditing issue, namely the function of auditing. Understanding the function of auditing is helpful in understanding all of the other issues raised in this book. We explore economic reasons for auditing, which provide numerous explanations why auditing developed and why it can be of value to companies, their managers, and investors, regardless of whether it is required by regulations. The explanations discussed are the information role of auditing; agency theory; insurance; organizational control; as confirmation (of previously released information); and as part of risk management. We also examine why it is commonly found that auditing is compulsory, including both public interest and pubic choice explanations for mandatory auditing.

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Knechel, Warren Robert and Willekens, Marleen, The Function of Auditing (January 31, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,267
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies