Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The External Auditor and the Audit Committee

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014.

Posted: 12 Apr 2014

Jean Bédard

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Tiphaine Compernolle

Université Laval - École de Comptabilité

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

The audit committee is an important corporate governance mechanism that is responsible for overseeing the company’s relations with the external auditor. It thus contributes to ensuring the quality of the external audit and reinforces confidence in the auditor’s report. This chapter provides a survey of the state of knowledge on audit committees. Given the recent extensive literature reviews done on the topic, we focus on current issues and review selected contemporary relevant studies. Four issues regarding audit committees are identified: their role regarding the appointment and removal of the external auditor, their role in overseeing non-audit services, their interactions with the auditor, and their role in auditor/management disagreements. Overall, the results of the studies reviewed suggest that “strong” audit committees influence audit quality. They also show that there is room for improvement. Audit committees are not the external auditor’s “boss”; they act at a distance in the auditor selection process and in the process of resolving disagreements between auditor and management. Consequently, management still drives the relationships with the auditor, and the audit committee arguably does not play its full role in protecting auditors’ independence. Finally, this chapter underlines the need for more studies on how the audit committee exerts its oversight role in practice.

Keywords: Audit, Auditor independance, Governance

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Bédard, Jean and Compernolle, Tiphaine, The External Auditor and the Audit Committee (January 31, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423389
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies