Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing the Auditor's Report: To What Extent is there Support for the IAASB's Proposed Changes?

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2014 Last revised: 24 Apr 2014

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Anna Huggins

Queensland University of Technology - Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 17, 2014

Abstract

This article outlines proposed reforms to auditor reporting currently being considered by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), and other key national and transnational standard-setters and regulatory bodies. It adds to recent academic contributions on reforming the auditor’s report by analyzing the 165 stakeholder responses to the IAASB’s 2012 Invitation to Comment: Improving the Auditor’s Report to determine levels of support for the IAASB’s proposed reforms, and the differences, if any, between the views of various respondents based on stakeholder groups (e.g. audit and assurance firms, users, preparers, regulators, etc.) and regional classifications. Guided by insights from communication theory, our results show the levels of stakeholder support for the IAASB’s proposed reforms addressing auditors’ expectations, information and communication gaps are mixed. The strongest overall support was for enhanced auditor reporting on other information attached to, or intended to be read with, the financial statements, and the least supported initiative was including additional information in the auditor’s report about the auditor’s judgements and processes. Whilst overall there is generally consensus across both stakeholder groups and regions concerning the various questions investigated, we highlight where statistically significant differences between groups do exist. Notably, North American respondents were less likely to support a number of the IAASB’s proposed reforms than their counterparts from other regions.

Keywords: Auditor Reporting, International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, Expectations Gap, Communication Theory, Information Gap

Suggested Citation:

Simnett, Roger and Huggins, Anna, Enhancing the Auditor's Report: To What Extent is there Support for the IAASB's Proposed Changes? (April 17, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Iii Bailey , K E , J H Bylinski , M D Shields
Effects of audit report wording changes on the perceived message
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 370 Posted: 1983
R Barthes
Elements of Semiology. London Posted: 1968
Crossref
J V Carcello , C Li
Costs and benefits of requiring an engagement partner signature: Recent experience in the United Kingdom
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 5 , p. 1511 - 1546 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
541
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,402
RANK
117,784
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies