Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization of Auditing

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2013

Posted: 17 Apr 2014

Elizabeth Carson

RMIT University; University of New South Wales

Date Written: July 19, 2013

Abstract

To audit global clients, auditing has been transformed into a global profession. This has been driven by client demand for provision of co-ordinated services wherever they may be required. At the same time, additional regulation in the form of international auditing standards, requirements to report on the governance of audit firms and extraterritorial laws requiring audit firm inspections have been implemented demonstrating the interconnectedness of global, regional and national influences on the audit profession. The structure of the global audit market has changed significantly as a result of mergers and by collapse, with a reduction in the number of largest firms serving global clients from the Big 8 in the late 1980s to the Big 4 by the early 21st century. These large audit firms are structured as networks as this enables these national partnerships to expand under a common brand name to deliver services across the globe whilst preserving legal separation for national offices in the presence of significant litigation risk for audit professionals. Key concerns of regulators include audit quality across countries (especially in countries where the quality of legal institutions is weak), across audit firm networks as well as auditing of multinationals and cross-border transactions. There are many opportunities for research examining these issues using varying units of analysis, and employing a variety of methodological approaches.

Keywords: audit, audit firms, globalization, networks

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Carson, Elizabeth, Globalization of Auditing (July 19, 2013). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426043
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,461
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies