Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement and Auditing Errors Associated with the Lawsuits Against Public Accountants in Australia and Singapore

35 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2014

Pelma Jacinth Rajapakse

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Jodi Gardner

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law; National University of Singapore (NUS); University of Cambridge

Date Written: December 18, 2013

Abstract

This paper considers the legal liability regime for financial advisors, namely certified public accountants and auditors, in Singapore and Australia. Examination of the comparative aspects in which lawsuits against financial advisors are commenced provided an analysis of the legal and commercial environment and the regulatory regimes of the two jurisdictions considered. Information was collected from a wide range of sources including articles, texts, government reports and professional body publications. The main basis of the paper however, was a detailed analysis of a number of court cases in Singapore and Australia. A qualitative, legal case-study method was used to meet the following objectives: (i) description of background information for the lawsuit, (ii) explanation of information collected, and (iii) analysis of the information in the context of the research topic. After a wide search on a number of different legal databases in Australia and Singapore, eleven and eight relevant cases were chosen from each jurisdiction respectively.

The case analysis was conducted to develop an understanding of the complex reasons that initiated the litigation process against the professional accountant or auditor where many variables are not quantifiable and actual causes for legal action significantly vary from one case to the other. These cases were evaluated to consider a range of issues including the court jurisdiction, main issues contributing to the litigation, types of alleged errors and findings of liability. Consequently it appeared that even though the two countries have similar regulatory regimes for financial advisors, there were a surprising range of differences in the legal and commercial environment in which claims were brought by parties. These differences highlighted the positive and negative aspects of the varying approaches and allowed the paper to make a range of recommendations for Australia, Singapore and the accounting profession at large. These recommendations include a strict approach to legal liability for advisors, enacting measures to limit the liability of advisors and the requirement and importance of good corporate governance approaches.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Errors, Fraud Detection, Negligent Misstatement, Negligent audit, Corporate Governance, Proportionate Liability, Public Accountants, Auditors, Australia, Singapore.

JEL Classification: M4, M49, Z00

Suggested Citation:

Rajapakse, Pelma Jacinth and Gardner, Jodi, Financial Statement and Auditing Errors Associated with the Lawsuits Against Public Accountants in Australia and Singapore (December 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2426453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Arthur Young V Wa Chip , &amp; Pulp Co Pty Ltd
Posted: 1989
Crossref
BGJ Holdings Pty Ltd v Touche Ross & Co , p. 12 - 481 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Burns V Grevler
Posted: 2010
Cameron V Mcmahon
Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,885
RANK
631,616
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies