Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud and Auditors’ Responsibility

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014

Posted: 10 May 2014

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Ashley A. Austin

University of Richmond

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

In this chapter, we synthesize our understanding of auditors’ responsibility for fraudulent financial reporting (i.e., fraud). The prevention and detection of fraud is an important priority for the profession, and thus we explore ways to improve auditors’ fraud investigations in the future. We broaden our understanding of this issue by documenting auditors’ and regulators’ responses to major fraud scandals throughout history, and then build on this by developing a model to summarize the current state of the academic literature in the area. We also identify the significant unresolved issues related to fraud that require the attention of researchers, regulators, and auditors. Accordingly, this chapter contributes to the literature by incorporating the perspectives of research and practice to provide insights that are informative to academics, auditors, and the profession at large, as well as to standard setters, regulators, and policy makers.

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Tina and Austin, Ashley A., Fraud and Auditors’ Responsibility (2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2428849
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies