Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Switching and Qualified Audit Opinion: Evidence from Serbia

The 2014 Proceedings of The first international Conference Sinteza, Belgrade

8 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2014

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Zoran Petrovic

Singidunum University

Kosana Vicentijevic

Singidunum University

Vule Mizdrakovic

Singidunum University

Date Written: April 25, 2014

Abstract

The awareness of association between auditor switching and the audit opinion is essential when legislation regarding mandatory audit practice is being done. To test the significance of the association, we collect data on audit opinion reports of a random sample that comprises 800 industrial entities from Republic of Serbia. Using Fisher's Exact Test, we conclude that companies that have received unqualified opinion in one period, and subsequently changed their auditor firm, were significantly less likely to receive unqualified opinion in the following period, when compared to companies that have not changed auditor.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Auditor switching, Audit opinion

JEL Classification: M49, C12

Suggested Citation:

Stanisic, Nemanja and Petrovic, Zoran and Vicentijevic, Kosana and Mizdrakovic, Vule, Auditor Switching and Qualified Audit Opinion: Evidence from Serbia (April 25, 2014). The 2014 Proceedings of The first international Conference Sinteza, Belgrade, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2429784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J F Brazel , M Bradford
Shedding New Light on Auditor Switching
Strategic Finance , volume 92 , issue 7 , p. 49 - 53 Posted: 2011
P J Carey , M A Geiger , B T O&apos;connell
Costs Associated With Going-Concern-Modified Audit Opinions: An Analysis of the Australian Audit Market
Abacus , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Chang , C S A Cheng , K J Reichelt
Market Reaction to Auditor Switching from Big 4 to Third-Tier Small Accounting Firms
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 83 - 114 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C W R Chow
Qualified Audit Opinions and Auditor Switching
Accounting Review , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 326 - 336 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,887
RANK
128,779
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies