Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Did the Big 4 Get So Large? Evidence from Australia

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-13

67 Pages Posted: 2 May 2014 Last revised: 10 Jan 2025

Colin Ferguson

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics (Deceased)

Matt Pinnuck

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Douglas J. Skinner

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2025

Abstract

We use a long time-series from Australia to shed light on economic factors that led to audit market concentration and the Big N. We show that increases in the size of a small number of public companies was an important factor that led to large audit firms and market concentration. We also show that emerging Big N firms made sunk cost investments, including in the ability to provide industry expertise and non-audit services, which allowed them to retain clients, differentiate, and grow. These changes occurred around the time the profession lifted restrictions on advertising, which helped facilitate differentiation, and that larger, more complex clients switched to emerging Big N firms while smaller clients switched to non-Big N firms. We do not find that increases in audit market concentration reduced competition; our results instead suggest the audit market became more competitive over time. 

Keywords: auditing, market concentration, Big 4, Big N

JEL Classification: L11, L51, M21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Colin and Pinnuck, Matthew and Skinner, Douglas J., Why Did the Big 4 Get So Large? Evidence from Australia (January 10, 2025). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2431727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2431727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
H Abrahams
By All Accounts: The History of Ernst & Young Australia 1884-2005 Posted: 2006
D Aobdia , L Enache , A Srivasta
Changes in Big N auditors' client selection and retention strategies over time
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 56 , p. 715 - 754 Posted: 2021
Anz
Inquiry into Regulation of Auditing Submission to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations and Financial Services Posted: 2019
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 74 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,059
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,818
RANK
48,284
8 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies