Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Expanding the Audit Report on Managers’ Communication Openness

40 Pages Posted: 8 May 2014 Last revised: 29 Aug 2014

Nicole L. Cade

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Frank D. Hodge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Date Written: August 28, 2014

Abstract

Using an experiment, this study investigates whether including additional audit-procedure and/or accounting-estimate details in the audit report influences how openly managers communicate with their auditors. Extant research has focused primarily on the benefits of various changes to the auditor-reporting model. Our study complements and extends this literature by examining a potential cost. We hypothesize that as auditors are required to disclose new information about a firm in the audit report, managers will be less willing to share information about their accounting choices with their auditors. Results reflect this to be the case; participants in our study shared less private information with their auditors when faced with an auditor-reporting regime that requires the auditor to publicly discuss the participant’s key accounting estimates relative to an auditor-reporting regime that does not have this requirement. We further find that a disclosure focused solely on audit procedures does not have the same adverse effect for communication, particularly when participants trust their auditors. Overall, our study highlights the importance of understanding the net benefits that a shift in disclosure control may have on firms’ audit and financial reporting quality before implementing any proposed changes to the auditor-reporting model.

Keywords: Audit report, disclosure control, auditor-manager communication, trust

Suggested Citation:

Cade, Nicole L. and Hodge, Frank Douglas, The Effect of Expanding the Audit Report on Managers’ Communication Openness (August 28, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2433641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
AU Section 508: Reports on Audited Financial Statements
Statements on Auditing Standards Posted: 2010
S E Bonner
Judgment and Decision Making in Accounting Posted: 2005
S Chowdhury
The role of affect-and cognition-based trust in complex knowledge sharing
Journal of Managerial Issues , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 310 - 326 Posted: 2005
B K Church , S M Davis , S A Mccracken
The Auditor's Reporting Model: A literature overview and research synthesis
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 90 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
15 Citations
Marcus M. Doxey , Stephen H. Fuller , Marshall A. Geiger , Willie E. Gist , Karl E. Hackenbrack , Diane J. Janvrin , Marshall K. Pitman , Pamela B. Roush
Comments by the Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association on PCAOB Release No. 2016-003, Proposed Auditing Standard—The Auditor's Report on an Audit of Financial Statements when the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion and Related Amendments to PCAOB Standards
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. C26 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Karsten Asbahr , Klaus Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Daniel P. Lynch , Aaron Mandell , Linette M. Rousseau
The consequences of expanded audit reporting: implications of tax key audit matters for tax attribute valuation and auditor-provided tax services
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Md Mustafizur Rahaman , Md Moazzem Hossain , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan
Disclosure of key audit matters (KAMs) in financial reporting: evidence from an emerging economy
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 666 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,028
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,356
RANK
50,406
15 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies