Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Audit Offices Respond to Audit Fee Pressure? Evidence of Increased Focus on Nonaudit Services and Their Impact on Audit Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 7 May 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Dennis R. Lassila

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

We investigate whether audit offices respond to audit fee pressure by increasing their focus on nonaudit services (NAS), as well as the combined effect of audit fee pressure and an increased focus on NAS on audit quality. We find a positive association between audit fee pressure and changes in NAS at the audit office level. We also find increased rates of client misstatement among audit offices that increase focus on NAS in the presence of audit fee pressure compared to audit offices that do not, suggesting a joint effect on audit quality. We find that the reduction in audit quality occurs in large audit offices. Overall, we provide evidence that audit offices’ provision of additional NAS in the presence of fee pressure is an important dimension to consider when examining the effects of declining audit fees on audit quality.

Keywords: audit fee pressure; nonaudit services; audit quality; misstatements

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49, H83

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik and Lassila, Dennis R. and Omer, Thomas C., How Do Audit Offices Respond to Audit Fee Pressure? Evidence of Increased Focus on Nonaudit Services and Their Impact on Audit Quality (December 1, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2433048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Daniel Aobdia
The Economic Consequences of Audit Firms’ Quality Control System Deficiencies
Management Science, Forthcoming Pages: 73 Posted: 4 Aug 2016 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Asthana
Diversification by the audit offices in the US and its impact on audit quality
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 1003 - 1030 Posted: 2017
Crossref
B V Balachandran , R T S Ramakrishnan
A theory of audit partnerships: Audit firm size and fees
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 126 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,198
RANK
42,593
13 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies