Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Perspective Taking Encouraged by the Audit Committee on Auditor and Client Judgments during Accounting Disputes

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 May 2014 Last revised: 17 Apr 2020

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Kimberly Moreno

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Jonathan Pyzoha

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 16, 2020

Abstract

While recent and proposed regulations emphasize the importance of audit committees (ACs) in facilitating auditor-client communication, particularly during financial reporting disagreements, little research has examined this dynamic three-party process. We examine the influence of an AC that encourages auditors (partners and managers) and clients (CFOs and controllers) to re- examine an accounting dispute from the other party’s perspective. Experiment 1 results suggest this approach leads to a higher likelihood of agreement and greater concessionary behavior between parties than an AC that does not encourage perspective taking. Perspective taking also impacts the negotiators in different ways. Auditors’ solution sets (concessions less reservation price) shift closer to the client’s desired adjustment, while the clients’ solution sets get wider suggesting greater flexibility. Further, when the AC subsequently provides the same resolution recommendation to all negotiators, the AC’s initial approach carries over and impacts auditors’ and clients’ subsequent behavior. We find further support for these findings in Experiment 2, which was designed to rule out a potential confound and to use a different perspective taking manipulation. This paper extends negotiation research and should be of interest to practitioners, regulators, and those charged with governance by providing insight on the role of ACs during dispute resolution.

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharjee, Sudip and Moreno, Kimberly and Pyzoha, Jonathan, The Influence of Perspective Taking Encouraged by the Audit Committee on Auditor and Client Judgments during Accounting Disputes (April 16, 2020). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433669
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies