Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Institutional Investor Behavior Influence the Market Reaction to Going Concern Audit Reports?

50 Pages Posted: 7 May 2014

Steven E. Kaplan

Arizona State University

Michael J. Mowchan

Baylor University

Eric H. Weisbrod

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: April 29, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the incremental market reaction to first-time going concern audit reports (GCARs) relative to similarly distressed non-GCAR firms. We utilize a matched-sample research design to show that first-time GCARs are associated with incremental negative abnormal returns and increases in market-adjusted share turnover at the annual report filing date. Moreover, our results indicate that greater net selling by institutional investors (i.e., institutional flight) during the fiscal year increases the magnitude of these associations. We also find that first-time GCARs signal an increased likelihood of bankruptcy and weaker operating performance in the subsequent year, and that institutional flight prior to the GCAR moderates the severity of these signals. Taken together, our findings provide new evidence that first-time GCARs are incrementally informative beyond other financial statement information, and that the informativeness of the auditor’s GCAR decision is moderated by the observed trading decisions of institutional investors.

Keywords: Audit Report, Going Concern, Institutional Ownership, Institutional Flight, Market Reaction, Bankruptcy

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Steven E. and Mowchan, Michael J. and Weisbrod, Eric H., Does Institutional Investor Behavior Influence the Market Reaction to Going Concern Audit Reports? (April 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2433626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
E ; N Carson , Fargher
Crossref
M Geiger , ; C Lennox
Crossref
K , M Willekens
Auditor Reporting on Going-Concern Uncertainty: A Research Synthesis Posted: 2012
E ; N Carson , Fargher
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Jean Bédard , Paul Coram , Reza Espahbodi , Theodore J. Mock
Does Recent Academic Research Support Changes to Audit Reporting Standards?
Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 255 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Chiara Carlino
Accountability, Ethics and Sustainability of Organizations
, p. 111 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Sandro Brunelli , Chiara Carlino , Rosella Castellano , Alessandro Giosi
Going concern modifications and related disclosures in the Italian stock market: do regulatory improvements help investors in capturing financial distress?
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 433 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Pran Krishansing Boolaky , Reiner Quick
Bank Directors’ Perceptions of Expanded Auditor's Reports
International Journal of Auditing , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 158 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,777
RANK
162,563
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies