Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Regulation around the World: Descriptive Evidence, Market Structure, and Audit Quality

57 Pages Posted: 9 May 2014 Last revised: 27 Jul 2017

Ulf Mohrmann

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Ulrike Stefani

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Benjamin Hess

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 26, 2017

Abstract

The main objectives of recent audit market regulations are to (1) increase audit quality, (2) decrease audit market concentration, and (3) foster competition between audit firms. However, the empirical evidence on whether such regulations fulfill these goals is limited. We construct a unique database of the regulations in effect in the audit markets of 29 countries to explore the link between audit market regulation and the abovementioned objectives. The staggered implementation between 2002 and 2014 across the sample countries allows better identification of the role of audit market regulation than in single-country studies. We find that only one of the analyzed regulations, the restriction of auditor liability, is positively associated with all three goals. Mandatory auditor rotation, fee disclosures, and fee caps appear to be detrimental: The associations with two of the objectives are in the wrong direction, with no positive counterbalancing effect with regard to the third goal. Restricting non-audit services is associated with a lower degree of concentration within the group of market leaders and higher audit quality, but is negatively related to competition. The role of audit partner rotation and that of joint audits remain ambiguous. Our findings are helpful for regulators and academics and represent a necessary first step for a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of audit market regulations.

Keywords: Audit Market Regulation, Audit Market Concentration, Audit Market Competition, Audit Quality, Cross-Country Study

JEL Classification: G38, L51, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mohrmann, Ulf and Stefani, Ulrike and Hess, Benjamin, Audit Market Regulation around the World: Descriptive Evidence, Market Structure, and Audit Quality (July 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2434444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
226 References
Acca
Audit under fire: A review of the post-financial crisis inquiries Posted: 2011-06
A K Agrawal
The impact of investor protection law on corporate policy and performance: Evidence from the blue sky laws
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 435 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Aicpa
The commission on auditors' responsibilities: Report, conclusions and recommendations Posted: 1978
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andrew Ferguson , Peter Lam , Nelson Ma
Market reactions to auditor switches under regulatory consent and market driven regimes
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 197 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
683
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,987
RANK
87,355
1 Citations
226 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies