Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does High Quality Auditing Mitigate or Encourage Private Information Collection?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 9 May 2014 Last revised: 15 May 2017

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Shibley Sadique

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Madhu Veeraraghavan

T.A. PAI Management Institute, Finance Area

Date Written: May 15, 2017

Abstract

The finance literature offers two competing possibilities on how investors respond to the quality of public financial statements in their pricing decisions. They could collect either (a) more private information to benefit from lower information collection cost or (b) less private information because of lower incremental benefits. In this paper, we use the audit setting to examine which possibility prevails. Using the idiosyncratic return volatility as a proxy for firm-specific information, we show in a sample of 51,559 firm-year observations for 8,261 U.S. firms spanning the period of 2000 to 2010 that firms audited by higher quality auditors exhibit lower average idiosyncratic return volatility but a higher concentration of it at the time of earnings announcements. Our findings are consistent with the argument that investors reduce private information collection in response to higher audit quality. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of audit quality and idiosyncratic return volatility.

Keywords: Audit Quality; Private Information Collection; Idiosyncratic Return Volatility; Information Asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Sadique, Shibley and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Veeraraghavan, Madhu, Does High Quality Auditing Mitigate or Encourage Private Information Collection? (May 15, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B K Behn , J-H Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 327 - 359 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Y Campbell , M Lettau , B G Malkiel , Y Xu
Have individual stocks become more volatile? An empirical exploration of idiosyncratic risk
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,303
RANK
576,212
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies