Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Auditors Say 'No', Does the Market Listen?

European Accounting Review

58 Pages Posted: 18 May 2014 Last revised: 11 Mar 2019

Shimin Chen

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Bingbing Hu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Ziye Zhao

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 1, 2019

Abstract

Previous research on whether the market responds to auditors’ opinions has provided mixed results. We revisit this issue in China, where the stock market is dominated by individual investors who are more likely to neglect value-relevant information. In addition, China permits modified audit opinions (MAOs) on violations of accounting standards or disclosure rules (GAAP/DISC MAOs), which are subtler in valuation implications than going concern opinions (GCOs) and are more likely to be mispriced. The Chinese stock market thus gives us the best chance of detecting MAO mispricing. We find that, ceteris paribus, MAO recipients underperform in the future and have higher incidence of other outcomes that are adverse to investors, and the market reacts negatively to MAOs during the short window around MAO disclosure. Importantly, MAO disclosure is not followed by negative long-term stock returns, suggesting that stock price adjustments to MAOs are speedy and unbiased. These findings hold for both GCOs and GAAP/DISC MAOs. Together, our findings support the informativeness of audit opinions and cast doubt on the argument that investors inefficiently price audit opinions due to information processing bias.

Keywords: audit modifications; information content; capital market efficiency

JEL Classification: G14; M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shimin and Hu, Bingbing and Wu, Donghui and Zhao, Ziye, When Auditors Say 'No', Does the Market Listen? (March 1, 2019). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2438167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2438167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring value relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Aboody , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Limited attention and the earnings announcement returns of past stock market winners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 344 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E I Altman , L Zhang , J Yen
Corporate financial distress diagnosis model and application in credit rating for listing firms in China
Frontiers of Computer Science in China , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 220 - 236 Posted: 2010
R Ball , S P Kothari
Security returns around earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 718 - 738 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,625
RANK
197,037
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies