Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer-Base Concentration: Implications for Audit Pricing and Quality

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Spring 2019

51 Pages Posted: 23 May 2014 Last revised: 8 Nov 2021

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Annika Yu Wang

University of Houston - Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 12, 2018

Abstract

What are the implications of major customer dependency, i.e., the degree of a supplier firm’s dependency on its major customers, for external auditors? While the conventional view emphasizes the negatives of major customer dependency for client business risk, we find that suppliers with more concentrated customer bases spend less on audit fees. The negative association between audit fees and customer-base concentration holds after controlling for a wide array of client firm and auditor characteristics. The evidence is consistent with reduced audit effort due to efficiency gains in the audit process, especially when suppliers with more concentrated customer bases share the same auditors with their long-standing major customers. The audit fee discount we identify does not imply that audit quality declines with customer-base concentration. In fact, we find that suppliers with more concentrated customer bases are less likely to experience material restatements of previously audited financial statements, which implies a positive link between audit quality and major customer dependency. Overall, our study contributes to research in accounting and operations management on inter-organizational relationships by exploring the interplay of customer-base concentration with client business risk and audit complexity. Taking the external auditors’ perspective, our study provides new managerial insights on the costs and benefits of major customer relationships for supplier firms.

Keywords: customer-base concentration; audit fees; audit quality; accounting restatements

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Patatoukas, Panos N. and Wang, Annika Yu, Customer-Base Concentration: Implications for Audit Pricing and Quality (January 12, 2018). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Spring 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2440009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2440009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector
Production and Operations Management Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,166
RANK
32,917
13 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies