Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Task Subjectivity and Risk of Material Misstatement on Auditors’ Configural Processing in Internal Audit Reliance Judgments

Posted: 25 May 2014 Last revised: 23 Sep 2014

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Mario J. Maletta

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Kimberly Moreno

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: May 23, 2014

Abstract

Using a field-based questionnaire administered to practicing auditors, we examine how auditors simultaneously combine the key planning variables, client-level misstatement risk (comprised of inherent risk and control risk) with account-level subjectivity, when utilizing internal audit as a cost management tool. We contend that auditor use of internal audit will reflect a balance between the potential for efficiency gains and the implications regarding audit effectiveness. Prior internal audit research has primarily focused on lower and higher risk conditions with relatively few studies examining the implications of moderate risk scenarios on internal audit use. Data on actual audits from an instrument administered to external auditors reveal significant differences in reliance decisions across lower, moderate, and higher misstatement risk levels. Our results reveal that increases in account-level subjectivity have no effect on auditors’ internal audit reliance judgments when risk of material misstatement is at lower levels. However, auditors increase their internal audit reliance when account-level subjectivity increases across moderate misstatement risk. Finally, our results suggest that auditors decrease their internal audit reliance when account subjectivity increases across higher misstatement risk. By examining these risk variables in combination, we provide insight into the complexities associated with external auditors’ internal audit usage decisions in the post-SOX era. This research should be of interest to practitioners given PCAOB’s limited guidance on how multiple risk factors should be combined when utilizing internal audit.

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharjee, Sudip and Maletta, Mario J. and Moreno, Kimberly, The Role of Task Subjectivity and Risk of Material Misstatement on Auditors’ Configural Processing in Internal Audit Reliance Judgments (May 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies