Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misstatements in Financial Statements: The Relationship between Inherent and Control Risk Factors and Audit Adjustments

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 33 (4), 247-269, 2014

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 29 May 2014 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Klaus Ruhnke

Freie Universitaet Berlin - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper analyzes whether audit adjustments vary systematically with inherent and control risk factors. The analysis is based on proprietary data from a large recent sample of audit adjustments detected in the financial statement audits conducted by a Big 4 audit firm in Germany. We extend the scope of prior studies by incorporating client-specific planning materiality in our design, enabling us to analyze the relative magnitude of adjustments. Our findings show that audit adjustments vary systematically, as proposed by the audit risk model. Specifically, the integrity and competence of the client’s management, economic position, entity-level control strength, and internal control system are associated with the number and relative magnitude of audit adjustments. The results also suggest that inherent and control risk factors are particularly strongly associated with income-affecting adjustments.

Keywords: audit adjustments, audit risk model, business risk audit approach, International Standards on Auditing (ISA), materiality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ruhnke, Klaus and Schmidt, Martin, Misstatements in Financial Statements: The Relationship between Inherent and Control Risk Factors and Audit Adjustments (April 1, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 33 (4), 247-269, 2014, ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2442397
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies