Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Audit Rotation, Audit Fee and Auditor Competence to Motivation Auditor and Implications on Audit Quality (Study in Registered Public Accountant Firms at Bank Indonesia)

18 Pages Posted: 28 May 2014

Wiwi Idawati

Magister Akuntansi STEI Indonesia

Date Written: May 27, 2014

Abstract

The purposes of this research are to analyze and to learn: (1) the correlation between audit rotation, audit fee and auditor competence, (2) Influence of audit rotation, audit fee and auditor competence on auditor motivation both simultaneously and partially, and (3) the influence of audit rotation, audit fee, auditor competence and auditor motivation and audit quality simultaneously and partially. This study uses an explanatory research methods, conducted on 103 Public Accountant Firms (PAF) registered at Bank Indonesia as the unit of analysis, while the unit of observation is a partner and manager. The primary data is used and collected by a research questionnaires containing instruments for measurement interval scale. Its distribution must be first evaluated the validity and reliability testing before hypothesis. The analysis of data used Path Analysis and evaluate the hypothesis testing by using Lisrel software. 8.7. The result of this study indicates: (1) there is correlation between audit rotation, audit fee and auditor competence, (2) audit rotation, audit fee and auditor competence influence to auditor motivation both simultaneously and partially, and (3) audit rotation, audit fee, auditor competence and auditor motivation influence on audit quality both simultaneously and partially.

Keywords: audit rotation, audit fee, auditor competence, auditor motivation and audit quality

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Idawati, Wiwi, Effect of Audit Rotation, Audit Fee and Auditor Competence to Motivation Auditor and Implications on Audit Quality (Study in Registered Public Accountant Firms at Bank Indonesia) (May 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2442253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2442253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Alvin A Arens , Randal J Elder , Mark S Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Service An Integrated Approach Posted: 2012
Hugh J Arnold
Task Performance as Determinants of Motivation
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 876 - 888 Posted: 1985-12
Azharsusanto
SistemInformasiAkuntansi: KonsepdanPengembanganBebasisKomputer. EdisiPerdana, CetakanKedua. PenerbitLingga Jaya Posted: 2007
C Barker , Pistrang , R ; Elliot , Ltd Chichesterengland
Research Methods in ClinicalPsychology. 2 nd Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
893
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,045
RANK
61,229
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies