Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accounting and Audit Quality Affect World Bank Lending?

Accounting Review 90 (2): 703-738 (March 2015)

Posted: 9 Jun 2014 Last revised: 9 Aug 2019

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Wendy Schultz

University of Manitoba

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 28, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the role of accounting and audit quality in the allocation of international development aid loans provided by the World Bank. This aid is crucial to improve governance functions, infrastructure, and capital markets, and the accounting and audit environments in a country can provide the World Bank with confidence that aid is being used as intended rather than being diverted for personal or political gain. We find that development aid loans are higher for countries with stronger accounting quality, where IFRS use is mandated, and where the audit environment is stronger. However, we also find that United States geo-political interests influence these results. Specifically, it seems as though the World Bank “overlooks” accounting and audit quality in countries where geo-political interests are relatively aligned with those of the U.S. Finally, we find that accounting and auditing matter only in countries with relatively high corruption levels, indicating that the World Bank trusts, to some extent, that accounting and auditing are of relatively high quality in low corruption countries.

Keywords: accounting quality, audit profession development, audit quality, corruption, financial reporting quality, geo-political interests, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, international development aid, International Financial Reporting Standards, World Bank

JEL Classification: A12, F33, F34, F35, H41, M41, O19

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Michas, Paul N. and Schultz, Wendy, Do Accounting and Audit Quality Affect World Bank Lending? (May 28, 2014). Accounting Review 90 (2): 703-738 (March 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2443015
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,568
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies