Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Risk Management and the Financial Reporting Process: The Experiences of Audit Committee Members, CFOs, and External Auditors

61 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2014

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Ganesh Krishnamoorthy

Northeastern University

Arnold Wright

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: May 30, 2014

Abstract

The financial crisis has brought to the forefront the need for companies to effectively manage their risks. One approach that has gained prominence is enterprise risk management (ERM), but little is known about the link between ERM and the financial reporting process. This link is important, because it is imperative that the financial reporting process adequately depict the performance and associated risks of a company. Additionally, ERM affects the risks of misstatement and potential lack of adequate risk disclosures, which impact audit planning. Accordingly, the objective of this study is to examine how audit partners, CFOs, and audit committee (AC) members (“the governance triad”) view ERM as it relates to the roles of governance parties, financial reporting quality, internal controls, and external auditing. To address these issues, we conduct semi-structured interviews of experienced individuals from 11 public companies that form 11 governance triads. Results suggest that across all three types of participants, respondents emphasize risk assessment/identification and operational efficiency/effectiveness when defining ERM. However, there is substantial variation in responses which suggests that there is still lack of consensus among key players on what constitutes ERM. Interestingly, only a minority of auditors mention strategy or strategic risks in their definition of ERM. To the extent this is reflective of auditors not fully leveraging the strategic elements of ERM, auditors may be underutilizing ERM in the audit process. This concern is further corroborated in a number of comments made by CFOs and AC. Moreover, participants perceive that the audit committee and the CFO play a large role with ERM and auditors are perceived to play a lesser role. Additional analysis of the responses indicates that while participants view ERM and its effect upon the financial reporting process from both an agency and resource dependence perspective, there is a greater focus on the agency framework. In all, resource dependence may be under-emphasized by all members, but especially by CFOs and auditors. Implications for practice and research are discussed.

Keywords: Enterprise risk management, qualitative research, risk management, COSO, financial reporting process, audit committee, CFO, audit partner, resource dependence theory, agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Krishnamoorthy, Ganesh and Wright, Arnold, Enterprise Risk Management and the Financial Reporting Process: The Experiences of Audit Committee Members, CFOs, and External Auditors (May 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2444397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2444397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Adams , S Fries , R Simnett
The journey towards integrative reporting. Accountant's Digest Posted: 2011-05
Crossref
&amp; Akin Gump Strauss Hauer , Llp Feld
Corporate Alert: The Board's Role in Risk Oversight: A Survey of Recent Proxy Statement Disclosures , volume 6 Posted: 2010-04
Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Posted: 2007
S K Asare , B C Fitzgerald , L Graham , J R Joe , E M Negangard , C J Wolfe
Auditors' internal control over financial reporting decisions: Analysis, synthesis and research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,954
RANK
24,396
34 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies