Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit in the Pharmaceutical Sector: International and National Good Practices

Journal Aktiv, April 2014, pp. 13-15

3 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2014

Yulia Nedelcheva

South-West University "Neofit Rilski"

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

Internal audit plays an increasingly important role in the field of management. In today's economic environment, means and methods to achieve high financial performance in the medium and long-term perspective are purposefully sought.

In the new reality, practice puts an emphasis on the need for additional control on the activities which, in turn, justifies concrete changes in the policy of the organizations as well. In terms of the individual organization, the implementation of internal audit is a set of applications of international practices and compliance with the national legislation that are undertaken to improve the competitiveness.

Keywords: internal audit, good practices, pharmaceutical sector

JEL Classification: F53, I18, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nedelcheva, Yulia, Internal Audit in the Pharmaceutical Sector: International and National Good Practices (April 1, 2014). Journal Aktiv, April 2014, pp. 13-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2444226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Guidelines of 5 November 2013 on Good Distribution Practice of medicinal products for human use. Institute of Internal Auditors. The role of the internal control and the function of the internal audit for the effective management and organic growth of the organizations Posted: 2006
G Sarens , I De Beelde
The Relationship between Internal Audit and Senior Management: A Qualitative Analysis of Expectations and Perceptions
Staneva, Ts. Study of the Status of the Internal Audit in Bulgaria. National Conference of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria , volume 10 , p. 219 - 241 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
393,016
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies