Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Equity Incentives and Financial Misreporting: The Role of Auditor Expertise

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2014

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Todd T. Milbourn

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - SMU Cox School of Business

Date Written: June 4, 2014

Abstract

Prior studies find inconsistent evidence regarding the effect of CEO equity incentives on financial misreporting. We argue that this inconsistency stems from not considering detection mechanisms that mitigate the effect of equity incentives on misreporting by limiting the ability of managers to carry out such manipulative activities. Using auditor industry expertise as one such detection mechanism, we document that CEO equity incentives are positively associated with misreporting only in sub-samples where auditor expertise is low, but not where expertise is high. The implication of these results is that auditor expertise lowers the cost of granting equity-based incentives, and that firms audited by an industry expert grant their CEOs greater equity incentives. We find strong evidence in favor of this implication. Controlling for previously identified determinants of CEO equity incentives, we find that firms audited by an industry expert grant their CEOs 14 percent more equity incentives than firms audited by a non-expert. To address endogeneity concerns, we use the collapse of Arthur Andersen as a quasi-natural experiment and find analogous evidence. Overall, our study documents the critical role of detection mechanisms in the link between CEO contracting and financial misreporting.

Keywords: CEO compensation, financial misreporting, accounting fraud, auditor expertise, auditing

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Milbourn, Todd T., CEO Equity Incentives and Financial Misreporting: The Role of Auditor Expertise (June 4, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
G Garvey , T Milbourn
Incentive compensation when executives can hedge the market: Evidence of relative performance evaluation in the cross-section
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1557 - 1582 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J J Gaver , K M Gaver
Additional evidence on the association between the investment opportunity set and corporate financing, dividend, and compensation policies
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 16 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 125 - 60 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E Goldman , S L Slezak
An equilibrium model of incentive contracts in the presence of information manipulation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 603 - 629 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Gompers , J Ishii , A Metrick
Corporate governance and equity prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 107 - 155 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
15 Citations
Nathan J. Newton , Julie Persellin , Dechun Wang , Michael S. Wilkins
Internal Control Opinion Shopping and Audit Market Competition
The Accounting Review 91 (2): March 2016, pp. 603-623., Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2503660 · 47 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2014 · Last revised: 8 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 796
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tor-Erik Bakke , Hamed Mahmudi , Aazam Virani
The Value Implications of Mandatory Clawback Provisions
63 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2016 · Last revised: 11 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 552
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Soenke Sievers , Christian Sofilkanitsch
<p>A Survey of Restatement Literature: Determinants of Misreporting</p>
68 Pages · Posted: 25 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 1,041
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yangyang Chen , Jun Huang , Ting Li , Jeffrey A. Pittman
It’s a Small World: The Importance of Social Connections with Auditors to Mutual Fund Managers’ Portfolio Decisions
Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 77 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 555
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,168
RANK
118,920
15 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies