Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Audit Fees: Evidence from China

Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Jun 2014 Last revised: 4 Apr 2015

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Donghua Zhou

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: April 4, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of related-party transactions (RPTs) on audit fees in China. RPTs may violate the arm’s-length assumption of regular market-based transactions, impairing the representational faithfulness and verifiability of accounting data and, as a consequence, increase clients’ auditor-assessed business risk. The presence and magnitude of such transactions are therefore likely to increase audit fees. On the other hand, audit fees could be lower for firms with RPTs because auditors face less difficulty in verifying them, as opposed to third-party transactions. We first consider the effect of RPTs on audit fees, and document relatively high audit fees associated with RPTs. This lends support to the conjecture that RPTs are seen as increasing audit risk. We then extend this baseline case by considering the effects on audit fees of different classes of RPTs, of the different parties involved in RPTs and, finally, of the interaction between product-market competition and RPTs. We first document a negative (positive) association between RPTs involving sales and purchase of goods and services (RPTs related to intercorporate loans). We also find that audit fees are relatively high for RPTs involving loans and capital transfers when listed parents transact with their subsidiaries. Finally, we find that audit fees are relatively low for RPTs within competitive industries.

Keywords: Related party transactions, audit fees, normal RPTs, product market competition

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Jiang, Haiyan and Zhou, Donghua, Related Party Transactions and Audit Fees: Evidence from China (April 4, 2015). Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2448088
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies