Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Singaporean Audit Quality and the Complexity of FRS 36 Disclosures Requirements

International Review of Business Research Papers, Vol 6, iss. 2 pp. 81-94

14 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2014

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Khairil Faizal Khairi

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM), Malaysia

Date Written: July 22, 2010

Abstract

Theories of audit quality hypothesize higher quality audits associated with larger audit firms. The relationship between size and quality is derived from DeAngelo (1981) which is widely cited in the literature as the basis for pooling big and small auditors when testing for audit quality differences among auditors. This study addresses this concern empirically by investigating the influence of audit quality on the use of the yearly goodwill impairment testing. Specifically, this study focuses on compliance with the requirements under FRS 36 among the Singapore firms whose 2005, 2006 and 2007 financial accounts have been audited by Big-4 or non Big-4 auditors. Consequently, this study constructed an appropriate methodology that able to distinguish audit quality between Big-4 and non Big-4 audit firms and attempt to question the homogenous audit quality assumption. The results of the study, using six analytical frames reveal that compliance level and disclosure quality are systematically failed to comply with even basic elements of the FRS 36 disclosure requirements in relation to goodwill impairment testing.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Standard, Audit

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel and Khairi, Khairil Faizal, Singaporean Audit Quality and the Complexity of FRS 36 Disclosures Requirements (July 22, 2010). International Review of Business Research Papers, Vol 6, iss. 2 pp. 81-94, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M J Ali , K Ahmed , D Henry
Disclosure Compliance with National Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in South Asia
Accounting and Business Research , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , T D Warfield
Audits as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: Evidence from the German Market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Goodwill Impairment Testing Under IFRS - A False Impossible Shore?
Pages: 34 Posted: 25 Jul 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,567
RANK
487,221
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies