Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of an Auditor's Communication Mode and Professional Tone on Client Responses to Audit Inquiries

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2014 Last revised: 29 Oct 2017

Aaron Saiewitz

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Thomas Kida

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Date Written: October 25, 2017

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether receiving an auditor inquiry via e-mail differentially affects client responses as compared to more traditional modes of inquiry, and whether those responses are affected by the auditor’s professional tone. In an experiment, experienced business professionals respond to an auditor’s information request regarding a potential accounting adjustment. We varied the communication mode of the request (e-mail, audio, or visual) and the professional tone of the communication (more versus less professional) and then measured the extent to which participants revealed information that either supported or did not support the client’s accounting position. We find that if an auditor asks for information via e-mail, client responses are more biased towards information that supports the client’s position as compared to audio or visual inquiries. In addition, we find that clients respond in a more biased manner when the inquiry is worded in a less professional tone as compared to a more professional tone. Further underscoring the implications of these findings for audit outcomes, our results suggest that if an auditor’s request leads clients to provide a response that is biased towards client-supporting information, clients may be less likely to agree with an auditor’s proposed income-decreasing adjustment.

Keywords: audit inquiry, communication mode, professionalism, negotiation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, D83

Suggested Citation:

Saiewitz, Aaron and Kida, Thomas, The Effects of an Auditor's Communication Mode and Professional Tone on Client Responses to Audit Inquiries (October 25, 2017). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
CPA Vision Project Posted: 2012
M H Bazerman , J R Curhan , D A Moore , K L Valley
Negotiation. Annual Review of Psychology , volume 51 , p. 279 - 314 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The effect of the social mismatch between staff auditors and client management on the collection of audit evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Biek , W Wood , S Chaiken
Working knowledge, cognitive processing, and attitudes: On the determinants of bias
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 547 - 556 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,369
RANK
138,390
26 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies