Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Analysis of Auditors' Perception of the Impact of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act on Audit Quality: An Egyptian Perspective

Hegazy, Mohamed and Kamer, Noha. A critical analysis of auditors' perception of the impact of section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act on audit quality: an Egyptian perspective. Afro-Asian J. Finance and Accounting, 2(2), 154-182

29 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2014

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

The recent accounting scandals that have occurred in the U.S have resulted in the issuance of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX), with emphasis on section 404 related to enhancing the companies' internal controls. This research study critically examines section 404 requirements, surveying a sample of Egyptian auditors in a number of audit firms with international affiliations about their perception of the expected costs and benefits that could result from applying section 404, and whether such requirements could have a positive impact on the quality of audit. The results provide evidence based on auditors` opinions that the benefits associated with section 404 applications are expected to outweigh its costs, with possible reduction of section 404 costs in the future period. Moreover, the results indicate that both the additional audit procedures required in the audit of internal control over financial reporting (ICOFR) and the increased legal liability that will be imposed on auditors through compliance with section 404 requirements are expected to improve the quality of the audit process. The results of the study call for the application of similar requirements of section 404 taking into consideration the characteristics and other elements affecting the Egyptian businesses, accounting and auditing profession

Keywords: Sarbanes Oxley Act, Section 404, Audit quality, Audit procedures, Legal liability, Internal Control, External Auditing, Egypt

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A., A Critical Analysis of Auditors' Perception of the Impact of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act on Audit Quality: An Egyptian Perspective (January 1, 2010). Hegazy, Mohamed and Kamer, Noha. A critical analysis of auditors' perception of the impact of section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act on audit quality: an Egyptian perspective. Afro-Asian J. Finance and Accounting, 2(2), 154-182, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2450722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
Reena Aggarwal , Rohan G. Williamson
Did New Regulations Target the Relevant Corporate Governance Attributes?
Pages: 43 Posted: 1 Dec 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Altamuro , A Beatly
Do internal control reforms improve earnings quality?', Working paper Posted: 2006
A Aly
The expectation gap regarding the auditor's role in the society
Management, and Insurance , volume 57 , p. 49 - 85 Posted: 2001
Statement of auditing standard No. 55: auditors' consideration of internal control structure in financial statement audit Posted: 1988
Load more
1 Citations
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
123,650
1 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Determinants of Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Accruals Quality and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Internal Control Weakness and Cost of Equity: Evidence from Sox Section 404 Disclosures

By Maria Ogneva, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies