Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Positions on Regulations Affecting Auditing and Nonauditing Activities

Journal of CENTRUM Cathedra: The Business and Economics Research Journal, Vol. 7, Issue 1, pp. 75-90, 2014

16 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2014

Rosario López Gavira

University of Seville

José Ángel Pérez López

University of Seville

José Enrique Romero García

University of Seville

Date Written: June 18, 2014

Abstract

The change in regulations that occurred in Spain in the domain of auditing has led to the analysis of regulations according to the positions adopted by different groups involved in the auditing market. The purpose of this study was to investigate the positions taken by professionals involved in this sector regarding those aspects of the law that regulate the provision of services other than the auditing of annual accounts, with a view to obtaining relevant conclusions for the regulation of the auditing activity. Findings show the existence of three professional subgroups according to the level of global prohibition of the incompatibilities analyzed and the level of importance assigned to the prohibitions in two important groups of prohibitions. The difference between these professional groups is analyzed in terms of their level of prohibition in comparison with the law. Other results show the most important variables for measuring a firm’s degree of independence.

Keywords: auditing, independence, incompatibilities, regulation, non-auditing services

JEL Classification: M420, K220

Suggested Citation:

López Gavira, Rosario and Pérez López, José Ángel and Romero García, José Enrique, Positions on Regulations Affecting Auditing and Nonauditing Activities (June 18, 2014). Journal of CENTRUM Cathedra: The Business and Economics Research Journal, Vol. 7, Issue 1, pp. 75-90, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2456321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An investigation of the impact of audit committee characteristics on the relative magnitude of non-audit service purchases
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Rick Antle , Elizabeth A. Gordon , Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy , Ling Zhou
The Joint Determination of Audit Fees, Non-Audit Fees, And Abnormal Accruals
Yale ICF Working Paper No. 02-21, Yale SOM Working Paper No. AC-15 Pages: 55 Posted: 7 Aug 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Arruñada
The economics of audit quality: Private incentives and the regulation of audit and non-audit services
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 489 - 520 Posted: 1999
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
RANK
708,404
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies