Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Demand for Accounting Quality and Economic Usefulness of Accounting in U.S. Private Firms

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2457956

38 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2014 Last revised: 22 Sep 2016

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: September 21, 2016

Abstract

For some privately-held firms, the costs of providing high-quality accrual-based financial statements may outweigh the benefits of accommodating the demands of their stakeholders who may rely more on cash flows or have direct access to management. For other private firms, greater stakeholder demand for their financial information necessitates them providing higher-quality accounting. Using a large sample of U.S. private firms, we first confirm that accrual quality in private firms is associated with the ability of accruals to predict future cash flows. Next, we predict and find that accrual quality increases with the demand for monitoring by equity investors, lenders, and suppliers. Overall, our evidence suggests that accrual quality of private U.S. firms is useful, has economic consequences, and varies predictably with certain firm characteristics.

Keywords: private firms, accrual quality, stakeholders, demand factors, cash-flow prediction

JEL Classification: M41, G30, G31, G32, G34, M10

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Thomas, Wayne B. and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Stakeholder Demand for Accounting Quality and Economic Usefulness of Accounting in U.S. Private Firms (September 21, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2457956, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2457956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2457956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 94 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Ang , R Cole , J Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 40 , p. 81 - 105 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives? Working paper Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
793
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,488
RANK
71,891
17 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies