Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of Audit and Auditor Characteristics on Auditor Performance

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Jun 2014

Walid Alissa

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Vedran Capkun

HEC Paris

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Nadja Suca

University of Split

Date Written: June 2014

Abstract

We use a unique and confidential database of 15,392 tax audits performed by the Croatian Tax Administration during the 2002-2006 period to examine the impact of task complexity, auditor experience, and auditor effort on audit performance. We provide external validation to prior experimental and analytical research showing that task complexity decreases while auditor experience and effort increase audit performance. We also extend this literature by examining the roles of task complexity and experience in moderating the impact of the effort on audit performance. We find that task complexity mitigates, while experience enhances the positive relationship between auditor effort and performance. However, we also find that auditor experience reinforces the positive effect of auditor effort on performance to a greater degree when complexity is high. Taken together, our findings provide new evidence on how audit and auditor characteristics impact audit performance, and new insight into how task complexity and auditor experience separately and jointly moderate the impact of auditor effort on performance.

Keywords: Auditor effort, Auditor experience, Task complexity, Auditor performance, Tax audits

JEL Classification: M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Alissa, Walid and Capkun, Vedran and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Suca, Nadja, An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of Audit and Auditor Characteristics on Auditor Performance (June 2014). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2458850
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies