Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Audit Materiality - It's Practices; Does It Meet the Expectations of Stakeholders?”

108 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2014

Gouranga Sutradher

University of Dhaka - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: January 5, 2012

Abstract

The concept of materiality is one of the most critical aspects in auditing both in terms of calculations and how it is interpreted in financial statements auditing. The Financial Accounting Standards Board acknowledges this by stating "If presentations of financial information are to be prepared economically on a timely basis and presented in a concise intelligible form, the concept of materiality is crucial". Notwithstanding its importance, the concept does not appear to be well understood nor the implications of its application in practice. This report examines the relevance of materiality judgments in financial statements auditing. Methods of calculating materiality are described. Research on materiality is reviewed, and the paper concludes with some suggestions for future research and for policy makers. The report discussed about the current materiality guidelines for external auditors and practices used by the auditors for calculating materiality in case of financial statements audit. A critical evaluation has been made from various perspectives of materiality calculation and both from quantitative and qualitative views. The process has been started by examining the context in which materiality is relevant, and the problems arising from applying the concept in practice. Definitions of materiality from legal, accounting and stock exchange sources are compared. The relevance of materiality to various accounting situations is discussed. Methods of calculating quantitative thresholds are described and illustrated. Prior research is reviewed, focusing on materiality thresholds, and on the materiality judgments of auditors, preparers and financial statement users. It also concludes with some suggestions for future research and for policy makers concerning this best kept accounting secret.

Keywords: Audit, materiality, expectation gap

Suggested Citation:

Sutradher, Gouranga, 'Audit Materiality - It's Practices; Does It Meet the Expectations of Stakeholders?” (January 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2459852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2459852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
. . . Auditor Judgments
, volume 87
Crossref
90 7.5 The expectation gap between users' and auditors' materiality judgments
. . .
. .
Chapter
Conclusion and recommendation
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,823
RANK
129,393
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies