Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values

70 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2014 Last revised: 2 Mar 2015

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

Auditors frequently use valuation specialists to help them improve the quality of audits of fair values, but problems related to specialists’ involvement suggest specialists do not always improve audit quality. I interviewed 28 audit partners and managers with extensive experience using valuation specialists to investigate how auditors use valuation specialists in audits of fair values and how specialists’ involvement affects audit quality. I find that while valuation specialists perform many of the most difficult and important elements of auditing fair values, auditors retain responsibility for making overall conclusions about fair values. Collectively, the interviews reveal a tendency among auditors to make specialists’ work conform to the prevailing audit team view. This puts audit quality at risk. I apply Giddens’ (1990, 1991) theory of trust in expert systems to identify a root cause underlying this problematic tendency. The necessity of trusting in an expert system of valuation specialists causes tension for auditors who ultimately bear responsibility for judgments about fair values, yet who must rely on the expertise of specialists to make these judgments. Auditors’ tendency to make specialists’ work conform arises from this tension as a way to preserve their expert role. By identifying auditors’ tendency to make specialists’ work conform to their prevailing view and theorizing a root cause of this tendency, this study informs researchers, practitioners, and standard setters interested in improving audit quality in the fair value setting.

Keywords: Accounting estimates, Audit quality, Fair value, Specialist

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine, Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values (March 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2460970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
19 Citations
Warren Robert Knechel , Justin Leiby
If You Want My Advice: Status Motives and Audit Consultations About Accounting Estimates
52 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 260
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Abernathy , Karl E. Hackenbrack , Jennifer R. Joe , Mikhail Pevzner , Yi-Jing Wu
Comments of the Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association on PCAOB Staff Consultation Paper, Auditing Accounting Estimates and Fair Value Measurements
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. C1 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Jennifer R. Joe , Diane J. Janvrin , Dereck Barr-Pulliam , Stephani Mason , Marshall K. Pitman , Zabihollah Rezaee , Kerri-Ann Sanderson , Yi-Jing Wu
The Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association is Pleased to Provide Comments on PCAOB Staff Consultation Paper No. 2015-01, The Auditor's Use of the Work of Specialists
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. C18 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Efrim Boritz , Natalia Kochetova , Linda A. Robinson , Christopher Wong
Auditors’ and Specialists’ Views about the Use of Specialists during an Audit*
2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference · 101 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 15 May 2019 · Downloads: 282
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,530
RANK
55,687
19 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Ego Depletion: Applications and Implications for Auditing Research

By Patrick J. Hurley

Auditor Mindsets and Audits of Complex Estimates

By Emily E. Griffith, Jacqueline S. Hammersley, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies