Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Quality Threatening Behaviour in a Big Four Accounting Firm

39 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2014

Wendy Beekes

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

David Otley

Lancaster University

Valentine Ururuka

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 3, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the determinants of employee dysfunctional behaviour, focusing on how functional area and hierarchical level affect behavioural outcomes. This is an empirical study based upon results obtained from a company based web survey in a Big Four accounting firm in the UK. Our results show dysfunctional behaviour increases when performance evaluation focuses on the achievement of pre-set targets. However such behaviours are reduced as organizational commitment, perceptions of fairness and interactions with superiors increase. Our results show that the strength of these effects differs across hierarchical levels. We also provide some preliminary evidence of differences in behavioural responses in the non-audit section of the firm. Our results confirm hierarchical level is an important contextual factor affecting the use of performance management systems.

Keywords: Functional Area, Hierarchical Levels, Organizational Commitment, Employee Dysfunctional Behavior, Target Focused Evaluative Style

JEL Classification: M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Beekes, Wendy and Otley, David T. and Ururuka, Valentine, Factors Influencing Quality Threatening Behaviour in a Big Four Accounting Firm (July 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2462456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2462456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
The role of budgets in organizations facing strategic change: an exploratory study. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 204 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Top 50 survey of firms Posted: 2013-07
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Crossref
C W Alderman , J W Deitrick
Auditors' perceptions of time budget pressures and premature sign offs: A replication and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,116
RANK
185,789
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies