Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the 2007 PCAOB Disciplinary Order Against Deloitte Impose Actual Costs on the Firm or Improve Its Audit Quality?

The Accounting Review, (March 2015), 90(2): 405-441.

Posted: 9 Jul 2014 Last revised: 1 Jan 2016

Jeff P. Boone

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: July 8, 2014

Abstract

We examine whether the December 2007 PCAOB disciplinary order against Deloitte affected Deloitte’s switching risk, audit fees, and audit quality relative to the other Big 4 firms over a three-year period following the censure. Our findings suggest that the PCAOB censure was associated with a decrease in Deloitte’s ability to retain clients and attract new clients, and a decrease in Deloitte’s audit fee growth rates. However, methodologies used in extant archival studies yield little or no evidence to suggest that Deloitte’s audit quality was different from that of the other Big 4 firms during a three-year window either before or after the censure. Overall, our results suggest that the PCAOB censure imposed actual costs on Deloitte.

Keywords: PCAOB censure; switching risk; audit fees; Big 4 audit quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Boone, Jeff P. and Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K., Did the 2007 PCAOB Disciplinary Order Against Deloitte Impose Actual Costs on the Firm or Improve Its Audit Quality? (July 8, 2014). The Accounting Review, (March 2015), 90(2): 405-441., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463845
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies