Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Admitting Mistakes: Home Country Effect on the Reliability of Restatement Reporting

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2014

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

Aida Sijamic Wahid

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto - Accounting

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 16, 2014

Abstract

We study the frequency of restatements by foreign firms listed on US exchanges. We find that the restatement rate of US listed foreign firms is significantly lower than that of comparable US firms and that the difference depends on the firm’s home country characteristics. Foreign firms from countries with a weak rule of law are less likely to restate than are firms from strong rule of law countries. While the lower rate of restatements can represent an absence of errors, it can also indicate a lack of detection and disclosure of errors and irregularities. We infer the effect of detection and disclosure by associating the frequency of restatements with the quality of the firm’s internal control system. We find that only US firms and foreign firms from strong rule of law countries show a positive association between restatement frequency and internal control weaknesses. Firms from weak rule of law countries show no significant association. We interpret these findings as home country enforcement affecting firms’ likelihood of detecting and reporting existing accounting misstatements. This suggests that for US listed foreign firms, less frequent restatements can be a signal of opportunistic reporting rather than a lack of accounting errors and irregularities.

Suggested Citation:

Srinivasan, Suraj and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Yu, Gwen, Admitting Mistakes: Home Country Effect on the Reliability of Restatement Reporting (July 16, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J-H Choi , J-B Kim , X Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Coffee
Racing towards the top?: The impact of cross-listings and stock market competition on international corporate governance
Columbia Law Review , volume 102 , p. 1757 - 1831 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Collins , A Masli , A L Reitenga , J M Sanchez
Earnings restatements, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the disciplining of chief financial officers
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi
Mandatory IFRS reporting around the world: Early evidence on the economic consequences
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 1085 - 1142 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,282
RANK
59,295
12 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies