Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review and Evaluation of Audit Quality Oversight

Indian Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 03.14

23 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014

Srinivasan Ragothaman

University of South Dakota

Theodore J. Mock

University of Southern California; University of California, Riverside

Rajendra P. Srivastava

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Abstract

As a result of massive financial statement frauds at Enron, WorldCom, Tyco, Sunbeam, Waste Management, Xerox and others, the US Congress enacted the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX 2002). This Act set up the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) which regulates the auditing profession in the US. The PCAOB issues auditing standards, inspects audit quality and also has enforcement powers. Following the US lead, nations such as Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom have set up national statutory bodies to monitor audit quality. This paper summarizes the work of these national bodies and synthesizes recent reports of these organizations concerning audit quality. Important lessons gleaned from this synthesis can be useful for those charged with audit regulation in India and elsewhere. For example, auditor regulation in India is in its nascent stage. In August 2013, the Companies Act of 2013 established the National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA). NFRA is tasked with the monitoring of audits of public company financial statements in India, among other mandates. This paper discusses the draft rules for auditor oversight developed by NFRA and provides some suggestions as to how countries beginning to develop audit quality inspection procedures can benefit from the prior experiences of others.

Keywords: Auditor oversight, PCAOB inspections, Audit Quality monitoring

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ragothaman, Srinivasan and Mock, Theodore J. and Mock, Theodore J. and Srivastava, Rajendra Prasad, A Review and Evaluation of Audit Quality Oversight. Indian Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 03.14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2469941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 37 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Audit inspection program report for 2011-12
Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) Posted: 2012-12
M Bhasin
Corporate Accounting Scandal at Satyam: A Case Study of India's Enron
European Journal of Business and Social Sciences , volume 1 , issue 12 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2013-03
Canadian Public Accountability Board (CPAB) Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,187
RANK
108,311
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies