Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Audit Firm Premium and Audit Specialization in the Public Sector

38 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2014

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Date Written: July 27, 2014

Abstract

The outsourcing of public sector audits to private sector auditors is an important public sector issue. This paper addresses the existence of an audit brand name premium in the public sector by comparing audit fees between the government auditor and Big 5 auditors. I also examine whether audit premiums exist for Big 5 industry, national and city specialists. The study contributes to prior research by (1) statistically adjusting for self-selection bias, and (2) allowing slope coefficients in the audit fee model to vary between the Big 5 and the government audit sector and estimating the counterfactual fee (i.e., the expected fee using the alternative auditor fee model). The Big 5 premium is around 23 percent. However, this depends on whether the Big 5 auditor is an industry specialist. An industry specialist passes on a discount of 17.4 percent to the client. There is no premium related to being a national leader. The evidence is mixed as to whether city specialists command an audit fee premium.

Keywords: audit fees, public sector, audit premium, self-selection, industry specialism

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E., Large Audit Firm Premium and Audit Specialization in the Public Sector (July 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2472719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2472719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
H Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
Crossref
W R Baber , E H Brooks , W E Ricks
An empirical investigation of the market for audit services in the public sector
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 305 Posted: 1987
Crossref
S P Bandyopadhyay , J L Kao
Competition and Big 6 brand name reputation: Evidence from the Ontario municipal audit market
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 64 Posted: 2001
Crossref
I G Basioudis , Ellwood , S
An empirical investigation of price competition and industry specialisation in NHS audit services
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 247 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
490,153
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies