Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and Properties of Analysts' Information Environment

35 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2014

Wen He

UNSW Business School

Baljit K. Sidhu

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: July 29, 2014

Abstract

Prior research (Behn et al. 2008) suggests that higher audit quality is associated with increased accuracy and reduced dispersion in earnings forecasts issued by sell-side analysts. We extend this work to consider how audit quality impacts the information environment in which analysts operate. Using the method outlined by Barron et al. (1998), we examine whether higher audit quality (proxied as an industry specialist auditor) is associated with differences in the weight analysts place on common information relative to private information, as well as the extent to which audit quality separately impacts on the precision of analysts’ private and common information. Our results show that higher audit quality results in analysts placing increased weight on public information, but also that the precision of private (as well as public) information is improved. These results extend our understanding of how audit quality impacts on attributes of analysts’ forecasts and provides support for the argument that audit quality impacts users of audited financial reports.

Keywords: audit quality, earnings forecasts, information environment, analysts

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

He, Wen and Sidhu, Baljit K. and Taylor, Stephen L., Audit Quality and Properties of Analysts' Information Environment (July 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2473418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2473418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O Barron , O Kim , S Lim , D Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
O Barron , D Byard , C Kile , E Riedl
High-technology intangibles and analysts' forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,853
RANK
274,135
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality

By Steven Balsam, Jagan Krishnan, ...

Auditor Industry Specialization and Client Disclosure Quality

By Kimberly Dunn, Brian W. Mayhew, ...

Audit Firm Industry Specialization as a Differentiation Strategy: Evidence from Fees Charged to Firms Going Public

By Brian W. Mayhew and Michael S. Wilkins

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies