Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Mindsets and Audits of Complex Estimates

47 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2014 Last revised: 15 Oct 2014

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Donald Young

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 8, 2014

Abstract

Auditors experience significant problems auditing complex accounting estimates, and this increasingly puts financial reporting quality at risk. Based on analyses of the specific errors that auditors commit, we propose that auditors need to be able to think more broadly and incorporate information from a variety of sources in order to improve audit quality for these important accounts. We experimentally demonstrate that a deliberative mindset intervention improves auditors’ ability to identify unreasonable estimates by improving their ability to identify and incorporate into their analyses contradictory information from diverse parts of the audit and improving their ability to think critically about the evidence. We perform additional analyses to demonstrate that our intervention improves auditor performance by causing them to think differently rather than simply to work harder. We demonstrate that critical thinking can improve the identification of unreasonable estimates and, in doing so, we provide new directions for addressing audit quality issues.

Keywords: Accounting estimates, audit quality, fair value, impairment, mindset, professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G10

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Kadous, Kathryn and Young, Donald, Auditor Mindsets and Audits of Complex Estimates (October 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2474365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2474365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S K Asare , A Wright
Hypothesis Revision Strategies in Conducting Analytical Procedures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , p. 737 - 755 Posted: 1997
Crossref
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA)
Crossref
Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards , issue 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D A Armor , S E Taylor
The Effects of Mindset on Behavior: Self-Regulation in Deliberative and Implemental Frames of Mind
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 29 , p. 86 - 95 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,104
RANK
78,698
46 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Ego Depletion: Applications and Implications for Auditing Research

By Patrick J. Hurley

Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values

By Emily E. Griffith

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies