Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demand for and Assessment of Audit Quality in Private Companies

49 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2014 Last revised: 9 May 2018

Adam M. Esplin

University of Texas at El Paso

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: April 27, 2018

Abstract

Audits of financial statements are mandated in most countries thus making it difficult to disentangle features of audit driven by private incentives versus regulation. Who would demand an audit, and how would they assess audit quality in the absence of regulation? Many private companies in Canada get their financial statements audited even though the law does not require it. In this field study, we conduct interviews to learn about various sources of private demand for audits, and criteria used to assess their quality. Our study reveals several sources of private audit demand from both internal stakeholders (management, boards, and employees) as well as external stakeholders (customers, banks and private equity firms). Users assess audit quality based on a variety of criteria such as the auditor’s accounting expertise, absence of errors, fee, risk assessments they make, allocation of their effort, and internal control and general business advice. Implications for audit regulation are discussed.

Keywords: Audit quality, regulation of audits, sources of demand for audits private firms, field study

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Esplin, Adam M. and Jamal, Karim and Sunder, Shyam, Demand for and Assessment of Audit Quality in Private Companies (April 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2477962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2477962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B K Behn , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , R H Hermanson
Client satisfaction and Big 6 audit fees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 608 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Dorota Dobija
The early evolution of corporate control and auditing: the English East India Company (1600-1640)
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 214 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Dafydd Mali , Hyoungjoo Lim , Rexford Attah-boakye , Kweku Adams
An Analysis of the Effect of Director Remuneration on Audit Effort: Evidence from the Unique South Korean Audit Hour Disclosure Context
YBARE-D-24-00272 · 37 Pages · Posted: 7 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 21
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,821
RANK
167,202
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies