Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Contagion Effect of Low-Quality Audits along Individual Auditors

55 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2014 Last revised: 14 Jul 2015

Liuchuang Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Gaoliang Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: May 2015

Abstract

Francis and Michas (2013) discover that the occurrence of an audit failure actually signals a more systematic problem with audit quality at the affected office. Using the Chinese setting where the identities of engagement auditors are revealed in audit reports, this study further explores whether the phenomenon of contagion is isolated to some specific auditors in an office or it indeed is an office-wide problem. We follow Francis and Michas (2013) to define an audit failure as an instance where a client firm subsequently makes a downward restatement of audited earnings. While we find similar evidence of contagion of low quality audits at office locations experiencing audit failures, the contagion effect actually is confined to the (other) audits performed by those specific auditors who are involved in audit failures, and it does not spread to the same-office auditors not involved in failures. We further find that the contagion effect is attenuated among female auditors, and for auditors with an accounting degree, with longer auditing experience, and with industry expertise. Our results suggest that the documented contagion effect of low quality audits is an individual auditor-level, rather than office-level, phenomenon. This underscores the importance of engagement auditor identification and the usefulness of disclosing auditors’ personal characteristics.

Keywords: contagion effect; individual auditors; audit failures; audit quality; auditor characteristics

JEL Classification: M42-auditing

Suggested Citation:

Li, Liuchuang and Qi, Baolei and Tian, Gaoliang and Zhang, Guochang, The Contagion Effect of Low-Quality Audits along Individual Auditors (May 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2478348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2478348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizon , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Asialaw
Deloittes faces lawsuit in Shanghai Posted: 2006-05-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,050
RANK
61,956
16 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies