Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and the Market Value of Cash Holdings: The Case of Office-Level Auditor Industry Specialization

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 34 (2), 2015, pp. 27-57.

Posted: 13 Aug 2014 Last revised: 3 Mar 2016

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Jong Chool Park

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 31, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the monitoring role of high-quality auditors defined as office-level industry specialists in the stock market valuation of cash assets. We find that the market value of cash holdings is significantly higher for the client of an industry specialist auditor. The marginal value of cash is 34 cents higher for the client of a joint industry specialist at both the national and city levels than for the client of a non-specialist. We also find that cash holdings are more closely associated with capital investment and the market value of capital investment is significantly higher when the auditor is a joint industry specialist. Moreover, we find that the value of cash increases significantly when the client changes its auditor to a joint industry specialist. Our findings hold even after controlling for the client’s governance efficacy and financial reporting quality. Our results provide new insight into the mechanism through which high-quality audits affect firm value: External audits facilitate shareholders’ monitoring over managerial cash expenditures, thereby leading market participants to attach a higher value to cash holdings.

Keywords: audit quality, auditor industry specialization, cash holdings, capital expenditures, cash management efficiency

JEL Classification: M42, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lee, Jay Junghun and Park, Jong Chool, Audit Quality and the Market Value of Cash Holdings: The Case of Office-Level Auditor Industry Specialization (July 31, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 34 (2), 2015, pp. 27-57., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2479518
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,996
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies