Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Forewarning Effect of Critical Audit Matter Disclosures Involving Measurement Uncertainty

47 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014 Last revised: 15 Feb 2019

Steven J. Kachelmeier

University of Texas at Austin

Dan Rimkus

University of Florida

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Kristen Valentine

University of Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 13, 2019

Abstract

We present experimental evidence suggesting that critical audit matter (CAM) disclosures in the auditor’s report involving areas of high measurement uncertainty forewarn users of misstatement risk. Specifically, in our first study with MBA students, financial analysts, and attorneys, we find that CAMs (1) lower pre-misstatement assessments of confidence in the financial statement area disclosed as a CAM, and (2) lower assessments of auditor responsibility for a subsequently revealed misstatement in a CAM-related area. In our second study with student participants proxying as mock jurors, we find that that the responsibility-mitigating effect of CAM disclosure is driven by CAM disclosures involving measurement uncertainty, as opposed to CAM disclosures involving categorical determinations. Combined, our findings help reconcile mixed evidence from prior research, supporting the view that the forewarning effect of CAM disclosures involving measurement uncertainty could mitigate perceived auditor responsibility for CAM-related material misstatements.

Keywords: audit reporting, misstatements, critical audit matters, measurement uncertainty, piecemeal assurance

JEL Classification: M40, M41, K20, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Kachelmeier, Steven J. and Rimkus, Dan and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Valentine, Kristen, The Forewarning Effect of Critical Audit Matter Disclosures Involving Measurement Uncertainty (February 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2481284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M D Alicke
Culpable control and the psychology of blame
Psychological Bulletin , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M D Alicke , J Buckingham , E Zell , T Davis
Culpable control and counterfactual reasoning in the psychology of blame
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 1371 - 1381 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Backof , K Bowlin , B Goodson
The importance of clarification of auditors' responsibilities under the new audit reporting standards. Working paper Posted: 2018
C Barrett , H Agnew , A Felsted
Q&A: What went wrong at Tesco?
Financial Times Posted: 2014-09-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,575
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,816
RANK
7,351
68 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies