Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Catch-22 in Audit Litigation? Interventions that Decrease Assessed Auditor Culpability by Reducing Assessed Fraud Detectability and Auditor Acquiescence Generate Reactance Effects that Increase Assessed Damages

63 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2014 Last revised: 29 Feb 2020

Tim Brown

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: February 27, 2020

Abstract

Juror assessments of audit firm culpability when material misstatements emerge after issuance of clean audit opinions are critical, but evidence shows these assessments can be dysfunctional and are often unfairly harsh on audit firms. Thus, despite helpful gains in the literature, there is need for advancing our understanding of interventions that can reduce jurors’ culpability assessments, and the key mediators through which these interventions operate. Drawing from recent psychology research on determinants of lay persons’ blameworthiness judgments, we propose two key mediators that we predict drive the extent to which jurors find defendant audit firms culpable: fraud detectability and auditor acquiescence. We examine whether three highly topical regulatory interventions—an auditor judgment rule (AJR) that directs jurors to not second-guess auditor judgments so long as made in good faith and with a reasonable basis, a critical audit matter (CAM) in the audit report that pertains to the disputed area, and a juror negligence training (JNT) in advance of the case evaluation—reduce jurors’ assessments of audit firm culpability through weakening jurors’ beliefs related to detectability and acquiescence. In two experiments with lay juror participants, we find that, as predicted, each of these factors reduces jurors’ culpability assessments through reducing detectability; the AJR and JNT also generally reduce acquiescence as well, although their joint effect is less than the sum of their individual effects. Importantly, we also identify a predicted “catch-22” in that the AJR and JNT (unlike the CAM) cause reactance effects in the subset of jurors who, despite the AJR or JNT, still find against the audit firm and when doing so, assign greater damages.

Keywords: Auditor Judgment Rule, Juror Negligence Training, Critical Audit Matters, Auditor Legal Liability, Reactance, Damages Assessments, Fraud Detectability, Auditor Acquiescence

JEL Classification: M40, M41, K20, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Tim and Majors, Tracie McDonald and Peecher, Mark E., A Catch-22 in Audit Litigation? Interventions that Decrease Assessed Auditor Culpability by Reducing Assessed Fraud Detectability and Auditor Acquiescence Generate Reactance Effects that Increase Assessed Damages (February 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2483221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2483221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Alicke M
M. Culpable Control and the Psychology of Blame
Psychological Bulletin , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
S Arsht
The Business Judgment Rule Revisited
Hofstra Law Review , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 135 Posted: 1979
C Aveni , J Hood , E Sledge
Explaining Complex Commercial and Business Concepts to a Jury Without Peers
Defense Counsel , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
A Backof
The Impact of Audit Evidence Documentation on Jurors' Negligence Verdicts and Damages Awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,091
RANK
36,424
17 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies