Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Auditor Selection Process and Audit Committee Appointment Power on Investment Recommendations

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2018

Posted: 22 Aug 2014 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Patrick Klynsmit

University of Amsterdam Business School

Philip Wallage

VU University Amsterdam; University of Amsterdam - Business School

Arnold Wright

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: January 4, 2017

Abstract

After the global 2018 financial crisis, regulatory bodies proposed alternative auditor selection processes to enhance auditor independence such as mandatory audit firm rotation or mandatory tendering (i.e., rotation which allows for the current auditor to be reappointed). However, these alternative selection processes may not be effective if management has substantial influence over auditor appointment decisions. We posit that disclosures of high appointment power of the audit committee will enhance the perceived effectiveness of rotation and tendering, thus, increasing investment recommendations. In an experimental study involving 118 experienced investment professionals, we examine the impact of the auditor selection process (mandatory rotation, mandatory tendering, and voluntary selection) and the appointment power of the audit committee (high, low) on investment recommendations. We find that audit committee appointment power affects investment recommendations only when a possible auditor change is anticipated (i.e., in the case of rotation and tendering), but not when the auditor selection is voluntary. Further, rotation and tendering lead to a higher recommended investment likelihood than voluntary selection, but only when an audit committee has high appointment power. In all, the findings underscore that investors do not view auditor selection processes in isolation of a company’s internal corporate governance mechanisms.

Keywords: audit firm rotation; audit firm tendering; audit firm voluntary selection; audit committee appointment power; investment recommendations, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M42, M48, G11

Suggested Citation:

Gold, Anna and Klynsmit, Patrick and Wallage, Philip and Wright, Arnold, The Impact of the Auditor Selection Process and Audit Committee Appointment Power on Investment Recommendations (January 4, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2484415 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2484415
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies