Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services in Nigeria: An Empirical Study

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 1, January 2014, pp. 30-45

Posted: 27 Aug 2014

Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Gloria Ogochukwu Okafor

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 22, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to ascertain the perceptions of Nigerian professional accountants on the issue whether the joint provision of audit and Non-Audit Services (NAS) does in fact impair the independence of the Nigerian auditor and, if so, what regulatory option/s could safeguard his independence. A questionnaire survey was conducted on 120 professional accountants. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze the data, while t-test and ANOVA were used to determine whether there are any significant differences in the perception of the problem according to gender, job type and postqualification experience. The findings suggest that professional accountants are of the opinion that provision of NAS to audit clients does impair the independence of the auditor. Beyond that, however, they prefer selective prohibition of NAS to audit clients on the basis of the nature of work. This study has practical implications for the Nigerian Security and Exchange Commission that is yet to legislate on joint provision of audit and NAS to audit clients of Nigerian listed companies. For the Central Bank of Nigeria, this study provides evidence that its barring of Nigerian auditors from providing some NAS to its bank clients was in the right direction. Going beyond merely ascertaining whether the joint provision of audit and NAS impairs the independence of the Nigerian auditors, the paper finds out some of the significant reasons for the respondents’ opinion and their preferred solution to the problem. Perhaps, this is the first time a Nigerian study has gone this far, thus making invaluable contribution to the scanty literature in this area in Nigeria.

Suggested Citation:

Chukwunedu, Okaro Sunday and Okafor, Gloria Ogochukwu, Joint Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services in Nigeria: An Empirical Study (August 22, 2014). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 1, January 2014, pp. 30-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2484997
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies