Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Auditor Opinions on Internal Control Effectiveness Influenced by Corporate Social Responsibility?

Posted: 24 Aug 2014

Andres Guiral

Yonsei University

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Belen Blanco

The University of Adelaide

Date Written: August 23, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the relation between corporate social responsibility and auditors’ perception of internal control effectiveness under the Sarbanes Oxley Act, 404 Section. Previous studies find that the management or the quality of the board of directors is associated with the strength of internal controls. We contribute to the existing literature by identifying that the mechanisms managers use to improve the perception of internal control effectiveness are related to internally-oriented social responsible engagement and, in particular, to the enhancement of employee issues. We observe that corporate social responsibility strengths lead to an improvement of the auditors’ perception of effective internal control while corporate social responsibility concerns do not seem to diminish the perception of effectiveness. We also examine the nature of the weaknesses, which leads to adverse auditor opinions and note that, while the presence of company-level weaknesses is negatively associated with corporate social responsibility, the presence of accounting-level weaknesses is not. Moreover, we find that both the quality of information reported and corporate governance affect the relation between corporate social responsibility and the perception of internal control effectiveness. Our results hold for alternative proxies of internal controls and after controlling for potential endogeneity issues.

Keywords: auditing; internal control, material weaknesses, CSR, earnings quality

Suggested Citation:

Guiral, Andres and Guillamon Saorin, Encarna and Blanco, Belen, Are Auditor Opinions on Internal Control Effectiveness Influenced by Corporate Social Responsibility? (August 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2485733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2485733
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies