Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remote Audit: A Research Framework

25 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2014

Ryan Teeter

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Michael Alles

Rutgers Business School

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: September 4, 2010

Abstract

Audit practitioners have been progressively adopting communications and analytic technology to extend the scope, change the timing, and reduce the costs of audit processes. These efforts have been mainly ad hoc, lacking an integrative theoretical positioning. This paper redefines the concept of the “remote audit” as the process by which internal auditors couple information and communication technology (ICT) with analytical procedures to gather electronic evidence, interact with the auditee, and report on the accuracy of financial data and internal controls, independent of the physical location of the auditor. Building on research on virtual teams and an analysis of internal audit activities, we present a research framework identifying areas where ICT and automated audit analytics enable auditors to work remotely, reduce travel costs and latency, and increase efficiency and coverage.

Keywords: audit innovation, remote audit, continuous auditing, internal auditing, communication, evidence, virtual teams

Suggested Citation:

Teeter, Ryan Anthony and Alles, Michael Gamini and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Remote Audit: A Research Framework (September 4, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2488732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M A Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi ; - , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi ; - , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi ; - , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: a pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at Siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Statement on Accounting Standards (SAS) No. 106. Audit Evidence Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Armbrust , A Fox , R Griffith , A Joseph , R Katz , A Konwinski
Above the clouds: a Berkeley view of cloud computing , p. 7 - 013 Posted: 2009
Jean C. Bedard , Michael L. Ettredge , Karla M. Zehms
Using Electronic Audit Workpaper Systems in Audit Practice: Task Analysis, Learning, and Resistance
Pages: 33 Posted: 4 Oct 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
8 Citations
Rafael Accorsi
A secure log architecture to support remote auditing
Mathematical and Computer Modelling , volume 57 , issue 7-8 , p. 1578 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Jean Francois Kone Adama
Gouvernance & innovation
, p. 219 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Dereck Barr-Pulliam
The Effect of Continuous Auditing and Role Duality on the Incidence and Likelihood of Reporting Management Opportunism
Management Accounting Research, 44: 44-56 · 13 Pages · Posted: 28 Mar 2015 · Last revised: 28 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 532
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margaret H. Christ , Marc Eulerich , Ronja Krane , David A. Wood
New Frontiers for Internal Audit Research
42 Pages · Posted: 1 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 1,352
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,272
RANK
19,031
8 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies