Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Audit: A Modified Delphi Approach

Canadian Academic Accounting Association, CAAA Annual Conference 2011

31 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2014

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Danielle Lombardi

Rutgers University

Rebecca Bloch

Fairfield University - Charles F. Dolan School of Business

Date Written: November 7, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to discuss the future of the audit profession. If the future of the profession can be predicted, then professionals will have the opportunity to prepare in advance. Expert consensus is used as a basis to generate modifications in the audit profession. A modified Delphi method is used to obtain this expert consensus based on participant predictions of audit methodologies, standards, and skill sets that will be in place in the future. This study contributes to the literature by using the modified Delphi method to develop predictions as to the direction of the audit industry. This is a timely study as the profession is adopting International Financial Reporting Standards. IFRS will bring a shift from rule-based to principles-based accounting standards and require a greater degree of auditor judgment. The Delphi Method has been proven useful in other industries and has yet to be applied to the overall audit industry.

Keywords: Audit; Delphi method; Information Systems; Expert panel

Suggested Citation:

Vasarhelyi, Miklos A. and Lombardi, Danielle and Bloch, Rebecca, The Future of Audit: A Modified Delphi Approach (November 7, 2010). Canadian Academic Accounting Association, CAAA Annual Conference 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2488730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Non-audit opportunities (potential for assurance services for CPAs that uses CPA competencies to expand the scope of provided services, e.g. provide independent continuous monitoring services)
E-Audit
Ways to extend the audit service through electronic media e.g. perform large part of the audit remotely through video and voice and desktop sharing)
Audit automation (ways to automate the audit, e.g. drive most of audit objective by data alarms)
Second Delphi Brainstorming Session -Questions topics posed to participants
Load more
2 Citations
Miklos A. Vasarhelyi , Silvia Romero
Technology in audit engagements: a case study
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 350 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Seval Kardeş Selimoğlu , Mustafa Hakan Saldı
Glocal Policy and Strategies for Blockchain
, p. 223 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,643
RANK
241,038
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies