Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ambiguity on Audits and Cooperation in a Public Goods Game

GATE WP 1403

56 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2014

Zhixin Dai

School of Finance, Renmin University of China; GATE CNRS UMR 5824; University of Lyon

Robin M. Hogarth

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences

Marie Claire Villeval

GATE - CNRS; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 4, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the impact of various audit schemes on the provision of public goods, when contributing less than the average of the other group members is centrally sanctioned and the probability of an audit is unknown. We study how individuals update their beliefs about the probability of being audited, both before and after audits are definitely withdrawn. We find that when individuals have initially experienced systematic audits, they decrease both their beliefs and their contributions almost immediately after audits are withdrawn. In contrast, when audits were initially less frequent and more irregular, they maintain high beliefs and continue cooperating long after audits have been withdrawn. This identifies the compliance effect of irregularity and uncertainty due to learning difficulties. By increasing both the frequency of audits and the severity of sanctions, we also identify an educative effect of frequent and high sanctions on further cooperation.

Keywords: ambiguity, audits, sanctions, beliefs, cooperation, public goods, experiment

JEL Classification: C92, H41, D83

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Zhixin and Hogarth, Robin M. and Villeval, Marie Claire, Ambiguity on Audits and Cooperation in a Public Goods Game (September 4, 2014). GATE WP 1403, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2491484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Institutional uncertainty and taxpayer compliance
The American Economic Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 1018 - 1026 Posted: 1992
J Andreoni
Why free ride? Strategies and learning in public goods experiments
Journal of Public Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 1988
J Andreoni , L K Gee
Gun for hire: Delegated enforcement and peer punishment in public goods provision
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 1036 - 1046 Posted: 1112
Crossref
Y Azrieli , C P Chambers , P J Healy
Incentives in Experiments: A Theoretical Analysis Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,738
RANK
299,879
3 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies