Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Auditors Professionally Skeptical? Evidence from Auditors’ Going-Concern Opinions and Management Earnings Forecasts

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2014

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Chan Li

University of Kansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 5, 2014

Abstract

We examine whether auditors exercise professional skepticism about management earnings forecasts when making going-concern decisions. Using publicly issued management earnings forecasts as a proxy for earnings forecasts provided by managers to auditors, we find that management earnings forecasts are negatively associated with both auditors’ going-concern opinions and subsequent bankruptcy. The weight auditors put on management forecasts in the going-concern decision is not significantly different from the weight implied in the bankruptcy prediction model. Moreover, compared with the bankruptcy model, auditors assign a lower weight to management forecasts they perceive as being less credible, including those (1) issued by managers who issued optimistic forecasts in the previous two years, and (2) predicting high earnings increases or high earnings. Taken together, our evidence is consistent with auditors being professionally skeptical about management earnings forecasts when making going-concern decisions.

Keywords: professional skepticism, management forecast, going-concern

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Li, Chan, Are Auditors Professionally Skeptical? Evidence from Auditors’ Going-Concern Opinions and Management Earnings Forecasts (September 5, 2014). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
B ; S Ajinkya , P Bhojraj; , Sengupta
The Association Between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Due care in the performance of work: Statement on Auditing Standards
AMERICAN INSTITUTE of CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA) Posted: 1972
Statement on Accounting Standards No. 59: The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
AMERICAN INSTITUTE of CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA) Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,951
RANK
133,890
9 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies