Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues Raised by Studying DeFond and Zhang - What Should Audit Researchers Do?

37 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2014

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Richard M. Frankel

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin Business School

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Date Written: July 2014

Abstract

We view audit‐quality choice as one among many that managers make to maximize firm value. We question whether audit‐quality differences among publicly traded companies are of significant interest to investors, clients, and auditors and ask for research on this topic. Relatedly, we ask for research on whether auditors and their clients show behavior consistent with regulated audit quality exceeding the audit quality level demanded absent regulation. We propose that researchers incorporate the competitive advantages of auditors and the institutional features of the audit process into the definition of audit quality. We propose that audit quality research test for externalities and inefficiencies to understand whether auditors and their clients are choosing the efficient level of audit quality. We note the legislative, judicial, and executive powers residing in the PCAOB.

Keywords: audit quality, regulatory intervention, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M3

Suggested Citation:

Donovan, John and Frankel, Richard M. and Lee, Joshua A. and Martin, Xiumin and Seo, Hojun, Issues Raised by Studying DeFond and Zhang - What Should Audit Researchers Do? (July 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2491135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M Alles , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Putting continuous auditing theory into practice: Lessons from two pilot implementations
Journal of Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,603
RANK
135,200
30 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies