Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Expectation Gap: An Empirical Review of the Literature

Posted: 6 Sep 2014

Professor Muhammad Tanko

Kaduna State University

Date Written: September 5, 2011

Abstract

The studies in the area of audit expectation gap mostly use survey questionnaires to identify the nature of the gap or where the gaps are; while others see the impacts of the gap; and how to reduce the gap. Different respondents have been used in the literature to elicit their opinion, for example, auditors, lawyers and judges (Lowe, 1994), jurors (Frank and Lowe 1994), investors (Epstein and Gregor 1994), shareholders (Beck 1994) various groups (Humphrey 1993) chartered accountants, financial directors, investment analyst, bankers and financial analyst. The conclusion of the researches is that the gap does exist and it affects the auditing profession negatively. Therefore, measures should be taken to ensure it is minimize or reduced.

Suggested Citation:

Tanko, Professor Muhammad, Audit Expectation Gap: An Empirical Review of the Literature (September 5, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2492061
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
881
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies