Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Market Effects of Disputing a GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Report

Advances in Accounting, 41, 126-140

Posted: 6 Sep 2014 Last revised: 23 Sep 2019

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Matthew Notbohm

University of North Dakota

Date Written: january 1, 2018

Abstract

As part of its charter, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) has the authority to inspect and review the workpapers of all accounting firms that provide auditing services to publicly-traded companies. The PCAOB summarizes their findings in publicly-available inspection reports available on its website. Prior research suggests that the accessibility, variation and source creditability of the inspection reports creates a publicly-available audit quality signal that is used by various auditor choice stakeholders. This is particularly true for triennially-inspected auditors that receive a GAAP-deficient report. In a GAAP-deficient inspection report, the PCAOB alleges that the auditor failed to identify departures from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the clients’ financial statements. In this paper, we investigate whether and to what extent the auditor’s response – which is also encapsulated in the inspection report – impacts the reaction to GAAP-deficient inspection reports. Using a sample of 59 GAAP-deficient auditors and their 466 audit clients, we find auditors that dispute the PCAOB findings are less likely to be dismissed by their audit clients and that this effect is magnified when a client has a CPA on its audit committee. Collectively, our results indicate that auditor choice stakeholders weigh both the PCAOB- and auditor-assessments of auditor performance.

Keywords: PCAOB, auditor responses, GAAP-deficient auditors, audit quality, auditor dismissal.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Buslepp, William L. and Notbohm, Matthew, The Audit Market Effects of Disputing a GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Report (january 1, 2018). Advances in Accounting, 41, 126-140, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2492188 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2492188
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies