Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Privacy Auditing Standards

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 18 Sep 2014 Last revised: 1 Oct 2014

Alan Toy

University of Auckland Business School

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 16, 2014

Abstract

Privacy audits are an area of auditing practice that are becoming increasingly relevant to audit firms as well as to regulators such as privacy commissioners. Privacy audit reports can be a resource for consumers and groups representing them. However, there is limited consistency between the standards applied in privacy audits when compared across different auditors and across different jurisdictions. Inconsistency of standards reduces international comparability of privacy audits, thereby lowering their potential value to the entities subject to audit, and to users of the reports. We suggest a set of fundamental principles for privacy audits drawn from recent proposals for legislative and/or policy reform by leading official bodies in the US and the EU. We apply this framework to 30 privacy audit reports issued in five countries. The results show that few conform to the proposed fundamental principles. This inconsistency limits their value and effectiveness.

Keywords: Privacy Audits, Information Privacy, Data Protection, International Comparability, Assurance Services

JEL Classification: L86, M41, O34

Suggested Citation:

Toy, Alan and Hay, David, Privacy Auditing Standards (September 16, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2497186
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies