Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Growth and Financial Statement Verification

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-30

77 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2014 Last revised: 2 Sep 2016

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Michael Minnis

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

We use a proprietary dataset of financial statements collected by banks to examine whether economic growth is related to the use of financial statement verification in debt financing. Exploiting the distinct economic growth and contraction patterns of the construction industry over the years 2002 to 2011, our estimates reveal that banks reduced their collection of unqualified audited financial statements from construction firms at nearly twice the rate of firms in other industries during the housing boom period before 2008. This reduction was most severe in the regions that experienced the most significant construction growth. These trends reversed during the sub-sequent housing crisis in 2008 to 2011 when construction activity contracted. Moreover, using bank- and firm-level data we find a strong negative (positive) relation between audited financial statements during the growth period and subsequent loan losses (construction firm survival) during the contraction period. Collectively, our results reveal that macroeconomic fluctuations pro-duce temporal shifts in the overall level of financial statement verification and that temporal shifts in verification are related to bank loan portfolio quality and borrower performance.

Keywords: economic growth, commercial lending, banks, financial crisis, audit, verification, financial statements, lending standards

JEL Classification: D82, E32, E44, G21, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lisowsky, Petro and Minnis, Michael and Sutherland, Andrew, Economic Growth and Financial Statement Verification (August 1, 2016). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2502889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2502889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
R Rajan
Fault lines: How hidden fractures still threaten the world economy Posted: 2010
M Ruckes
Bank competition and credit standards
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1073 - 1102 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R L Watts , J L Zimmerman
Agency problems, auditing, and the theory of the firm: Some Evidence
Journal of Law and Economics , p. 613 - 633 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Crisis Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,025
RANK
36,349
10 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies