Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind the Gap: Why do Experts Have Differences of Opinion Regarding the Sufficiency of Audit Evidence Supporting Complex Fair Value Measurements?

59 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2014 Last revised: 4 Mar 2018

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Mark H. Taylor

University of South Florida, Muma College of Business, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy

Yi-Jing Wu

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

Reported deficiencies continue to persist in audits of fair value measurements and other complex accounting estimates (hereafter, “FVMs”), despite improvements in auditor performance observed by regulators. The persistence of reported deficiencies in audits of FVMs suggests that factors underlying this trend may be more complicated and multidimensional than previously suggested by regulators and academic research, which has focused largely on auditors’ unsatisfactory performance as the principal source of reported deficiencies. Drawing from the judgment and decision-making expertise literature, we gather field-based data from audit experts to identify additional factors that are likely to be contributing to differences of opinions between audit and inspection experts and the persistence of reported deficiencies in audits of FVMs. We find evidence that audit experts interpret standards and evaluate audit evidence differently than inspectors, and thus perceive there to be a gap between what auditors and inspectors regard as sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support audits of FVMs (hereafter, “FVM gap”). Moreover, results highlight several areas in audits of FVMs where differences of opinion exist between auditor and inspector experts regarding what constitutes a reported deficiency. Within the contexts we examine, our results identify additional factors, beyond deficient auditor performance, that may contribute to the FVMs gap. We also report audit partners’ recommendations for ways to reduce the FVMs gap and suggest avenues for future research. Gaining a more complete understanding of sources contributing to reported deficiencies will help regulators, standard setters, audit firms, and academics to identify ways to reduce the FVMs gap and reported deficiencies in audits of FVMs.

Keywords: Auditing of Fair Value Measurements, PCAOB Inspections, Estimation Uncertainty

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Taylor, Mark H. and Wu, Yi-Jing, Mind the Gap: Why do Experts Have Differences of Opinion Regarding the Sufficiency of Audit Evidence Supporting Complex Fair Value Measurements? (March 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2504521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 1989
Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. AU Section 328 Posted: 2003
Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures. AU-C Section 540 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,627
RANK
59,295
24 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies