Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reliance of External Auditors on Internal Audit's Use of Continuous Audit

Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 29, No. 1, 2015, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Oct 2014

Irina Mălăescu

University of Central Florida

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: April 5, 2014

Abstract

As a response to the increased demand for timely and ongoing assurance over the effectiveness of risk management and control systems, companies are moving towards a more automated control environment through the implementation of continuous audit modules. The purpose of this study is to evaluate external auditors’ reliance on internal audit’s work when advanced audit techniques are introduced by the internal auditor and the impact this reliance has on budgeted audit hours. Prior literature suggests that internal control deficiencies also have an impact on external auditor reliance and the audit budget. The reliance decision of an external auditor has important economic consequences and implications for efficiency and effectiveness of the overall audit. In recent years, the PCAOB has encouraged greater such reliance to improve audit efficiency. An experiment is conducted with 87 experienced external auditors to investigate the theorized effects. Using a 2 x 2 between subjects factorial design, the frequency of the internal audit (traditional vs. continuous audit) and prior year material weakness (absent vs. present) are manipulated. Consistent with predictions, we find that auditors are willing to rely more on internal audit work in a continuous audit environment than in a traditional environment, and this effect is magnified when the prior year audit report on the effectiveness of internal controls indicates that controls are working properly. The presence of a material weakness, however, negatively impacts judgments on the budget for the valuation of a complex account. In addition, both material weakness and continuous audit have an impact on the overall audit budget, which is reduced only when the company has no prior year material weakness and a functioning continuous audit module is put in place. The results show that auditors increase budgeted hours for the engagement at a higher rate when the client uses traditional internal audit procedures.

Suggested Citation:

Mălăescu, Irina and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., The Reliance of External Auditors on Internal Audit's Use of Continuous Audit (April 5, 2014). Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 29, No. 1, 2015, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505750
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,598
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies