Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When the World Isn’t Always Flat: The Impact of Psychological Distance on Auditors’ Reliance on Specialists

46 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2014

Martin Weisner

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: October 4, 2014

Abstract

This study addresses recent calls for research on the conditions influencing auditor decisions related to PCAOB-encouraged reliance on third-party experts. To this end, the present study explores the effect of psychological distance on external auditors’ reliance when induced through physical distance in a telework relationship between an auditee and a specialist. The reliance decision focuses on the auditee’s contracting with a computer audit specialist who works remotely through a telework arrangement. The psychological distance associated with this telework arrangement is examined both in the context of variance in the physical distance of the computer audit specialist and the interactive effect of a contextual factor – the historical experience with an auditee’s internal audit function. A 2x2 experiment with a total of 121 experienced Big 4 auditors is conducted in which psychological distance (physically proximate or remote specialist) and historical experience with an auditee’s internal audit function (presence or absence of a prior year material weakness in internal controls) are manipulated. Consistent with predictions based on construal level theory, we find that psychological distance affects auditors’ reliance judgment such that increased distance leads to lower reliance. Furthermore, the historical experience with the auditee’s internal audit function creates a halo effect which moderates the effect of psychological distance such that the differential effect of a present vs. absent prior year material weakness on auditors’ confidence and associated willingness to reduce budgeted audit hours is larger for a psychologically distant specialist. The results of this study suggest that an auditee’s choice of a more proximate specialist may garner greater reliance by the external auditor, particularly when there is a material weakness in the prior year audit that the specialist is intended to help ameliorate.

Keywords: construal level theory; CISA; computer audit specialist, external auditor reliance; material weakness; management-appointed specialist; psychological distance; distance bias, cultural bias, telework

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Weisner, Martin and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., When the World Isn’t Always Flat: The Impact of Psychological Distance on Auditors’ Reliance on Specialists (October 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2505505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness Posted: 2011
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi , S R Boss
Factors associated with IT audits by the internal audit function
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 11 , p. 140 - 151 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M K Aguilar
Companies look to "rebalance" internal audit after SOX. Compliance Week Posted: 2005
AICPA). 1991. The Auditor's Consideration of the Internal Audit Function in an Audit of Financial Statements. Statement of Auditing Standards No. 65
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,080
RANK
355,843
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies