Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Analysts Know But Not Tell? The Case of Going-Concern Opinions

62 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2014

Ruben Peixinho

University of Algarve

Richard Taffler

University of Warwick - Finance Group

Date Written: September 10, 2014

Abstract

This study explores whether sell-side analysts recognize firms’ going-concern (GC) difficulties, and whether and how they report going-concern uncertainties to investors. We show that analysts are aware of impending firm going-concern problems on the basis of their tendency to downgrade their stock recommendations to “hold” for, and increased probability of ceasing coverage of, GC firms compared with matched non-GC firms as the GC announcement date approaches. Importantly, only 11% of stock recommendations at the GC announcement date are unfavorable (as signalled by “underperform” or “sell”) in contrast to 42% of favorable recommendations (“strong buy” or “buy”). We further show that analysts react to the publication of the GC audit report mainly by stopping covering such firms.

Our results suggest that analysts recognize firms’ going-concern uncertainties but communicate their negative prospects using opaque language that likely cannot be understood in particular by retail investors who constitute the main clientele of these firms. Consistent with the SEC’s concerns about the literal interpretation of analyst recommendations, we show that investors cannot rely solely on analyst recommendations in this extreme bad news domain where their information dissemination role is particularly salient.

Keywords: analyst behavior, bad news announcements, stock recommendation bias, coverage cessation

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Peixinho, Ruben and Taffler, Richard, Do Analysts Know But Not Tell? The Case of Going-Concern Opinions (September 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2505064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
M Barth , A Hutton
Analyst earnings forecast revisions and the pricing of accruals
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 9 , p. 59 - 96 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Barniv , O Hope , M Myring , W Thomas
Do analysts practice what they preach and should investors listen? Effects of recent regulations
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 4 , p. 1015 - 1039 Posted: 2009
Crossref
W Beaver
Perspectives on recent capital market research
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 453 - 474 Posted: 2002
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Post-earnings-announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,015
RANK
342,603
4 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Market Information and Predictive Accuracy of the Going Concern Opinion

By Kannan Raghunandan and K.r. Subramanyam

Rules Rather than Discretion in Audit Standards: Going-Concern Opinions in Belgium

By Joseph V. Carcello, Ann Vanstraelen, ...

The Effect of Bankruptcy Reform on the Number of Corporate Reorganization Proposals

By Timothy C. G. Fisher and Jocelyn Martel

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies