Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Fair Value Measurements: A Systematic Review and Meta-Synthesis

Posted: 27 Nov 2015 Last revised: 25 Jun 2017

Prince Doliya

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee - Department of Management Studies

Jatinder Singh

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee - Department of Management Studies

Date Written: November 25, 2015

Abstract

The significance of the “audit” function in the corporate regulatory framework has been increasing in the last few years along with the adoption of Fair Value Accounting (FVA hereinafter) across the world. In fact, since its inception, FVA has become one of the most controversial topics in accounting history. However, there is a lack of systematic literature reviews available on this issue. This paper aims to fill this gap. It provides a systematic review and meta-synthesis of articles published from 2004 to 2014 on Fair Value Measurements (FVM hereinafter) and the auditing thereof. This meta-synthesis highlights the key themes available in FVM auditing literature and discusses the issues and challenges in FVM auditing. This is one of the pioneering attempts to make use of meta-synthesis for analyzing the existing FVM auditing literature.

Keywords: Fair Value Measurement (FVM); Fair Value Accounting (FVA); Audit; Meta-synthesis; Systematic review

JEL Classification: M49, M41

Suggested Citation:

Doliya, Prince and Singh, Jatinder, Auditing Fair Value Measurements: A Systematic Review and Meta-Synthesis (November 25, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2505969
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies