Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Segmentation –The Impact of Mid-Tier Firms on Competition

29 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2014

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Nicole Zein

University of Mannheim

Date Written: October 9, 2014

Abstract

This analysis’ goal is to characterize the impact of mid-tier auditors on competition and average supplied audit quality. The major result of our analysis is the following: Auditors’ flexibilities with respect to clients’ complexity determine the offered audit quality levels and thus the average supplied audit quality. Defining a model-endogenous quality measure, we show that for some instances the mid-tier auditor improves average audit quality, but for other instances fails to do so. The result could be of special interest for standard setters, e.g. the European Commission, which is currently revising EU audit regulation. Further, the analysis may serve as an instrument to analyze economic consequences of future changes of regulation.

Keywords: Audit Market Structure, Audit Supply Concentration, Big-4, Hotelling, Mid-tier Auditors, Product Differentiation, Segmentation

JEL Classification: M42, D43

Suggested Citation:

Simons, Dirk and Zein, Nicole, Audit Market Segmentation –The Impact of Mid-Tier Firms on Competition (October 9, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2507889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2507889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
H Ashbaugh , T D Warfield
Audits as a corporate governance mechanism: Evidence from the German market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Barton
Who cares about auditor reputation? Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 549 - 86 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Baskerville , D Hay
The effect of accounting firm mergers on the market for audit services: New Zealand evidence
Abacus , volume 42 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
The changing structure of the market for audit services in the UKa descriptive study
British Accounting Review , volume 26 , p. 301 - 322 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
RANK
258,444
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies