Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Development of Audit Fees in Malta

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 2, April 2014, pp. 27-52

Posted: 14 Oct 2014

Justin Borg

University of Malta

Peter J Baldacchino

Independent

Date Written: October 14, 2014

Abstract

This paper seeks to assess the development of the pricing of statutory audits in Malta over time, with a view of changes in its determinants, the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and other potentially significant events. The findings reveal that there seems to be a general difficulty in realigning the audit fee in response to variations in its drivers, with a degree of price rigidity or stickiness being attributed to elements of imperfect competition and imperfect information in the market. The study also suggests the prevalence of implicit contracts between audit firms other than the Big 4 and their audit clients in order to mitigate the increase in audit fees expected since the recent GFC from 2008. Such behavior needs to be studied more deeply to understand its pervasiveness across other microstates.

Suggested Citation:

Borg, Justin and Baldacchino, Peter J, An Analysis of the Development of Audit Fees in Malta (October 14, 2014). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 2, April 2014, pp. 27-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2509721
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies