Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Offices and the Comparability and Quality of Clients' Earnings

60 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2014

Brett Kawada

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Date Written: October 14, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the role of the local auditor office in the comparability and quality of their clients' earnings. I construct of sample of firm-pairs in which each observation consists of two firms in the same industry-year. Accounting comparability is inferred by the closeness of total accruals between two firms in each firm-pair. I find that firm-pairs audited by the same local auditor office have more comparable earnings, on average, than firm-pairs audited by either the same Big 4 auditor but different local auditor offices or by different Big 4 auditors. This finding suggests that the application of a local auditor office style increases the comparability of client earnings. I also examine the association between comparability and average earnings quality in firm-pairs. Based on abnormal accruals, I find that firm-pairs with lower accounting comparability have lower average earnings quality. I also find that firm-pairs audited by the same local auditor office have greater average earnings quality. Overall, the results documented here provide further evidence of the role of the auditor as an economic agent promoting increased financial statement comparability in client earnings, as well as the benefits of increased comparability between firms as manifested in the quality of their earnings.

Keywords: comparability, earnings quality, Big 4 auditor offices

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kawada, Brett, Auditor Offices and the Comparability and Quality of Clients' Earnings (October 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2510186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality Decisions and the Correction of Accounting Errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's My Style? The Influence of Top Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,550
RANK
168,642
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies