Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Sensitivity to Real Earnings Management: The Importance of Ambiguity and Earnings Context

40 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2014 Last revised: 19 Dec 2017

Benjamin P. Commerford

University of Kentucky, Gatton

Dana R. Hermanson

Kennesaw State University - Department of Accounting

Richard W. Houston

University of Alabama

Michael F. Peters

University of Maryland

Date Written: December 3, 2017

Abstract

Differentiating real earnings management (REM) from normal business decisions poses a unique challenge for auditors, researchers, and investors. The ambiguity associated with REM, and the fact that REM does not violate GAAP, may explain why its use is on the rise. While some assert that auditors are not, and should not be, concerned with REM, recent research suggests that REM may influence some auditor judgments. Using Correspondent Inference Theory as our theoretical framework, we extend REM research by investigating the ways in which auditors respond to REM and how auditors deal with the intrinsic ambiguity associated with REM. We administer a 3x2 between-subjects experiment to 113 highly-experienced auditors, manipulating the level of ambiguity surrounding the observed REM (Explicit REM, Potential REM, or No REM) and the earnings context in which the client engages in REM (the client beat or missed the consensus earnings forecast). We find that auditors respond to REM by lowering assessments of management tone (i.e., management’s commitment to a culture of high ethical standards), being more likely to discuss the issue with the audit committee, and being less likely to retain the client. Auditors respond to Explicit REM regardless of the earnings context, but respond to Potential (i.e., ambiguous) REM only when the client beats the forecast. Finally, we find that management tone mediates the relation between REM and auditor responses, even after controlling for various audit-related risks. Thus, for auditors, REM appears to be primarily a “people” issue, as REM provides a negative signal about management.

Keywords: Real Earnings Management, Audit, Management Tone, Ambiguity, Correspondent Inference Theory

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Commerford, Benjamin P. and Hermanson, Dana R. and Houston, Richard W. and Peters, Michael F., Auditor Sensitivity to Real Earnings Management: The Importance of Ambiguity and Earnings Context (December 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2510554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1988. Analytical Procedures. AU Section 329
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. AU Section 316 Posted: 2002
M Bange , W Debondt
R&D budgets and corporate earnings targets
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 184 Posted: 1998
Crossref
E Bartov
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 840 - 855 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,186
RANK
122,537
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies