Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of China's Weak Institutional Environment on the Quality of Big Four Audits

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2014

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Qingquan Xin

Chongqing University

Date Written: October 15, 2014

Abstract

This study examines whether China’s weak institutional environment results in lower quality audits by the Big Four firms. We find that the Big Four assign their less experienced partners to companies that are listed only in China compared with clients cross-listed in Hong Kong. The Big Four are less likely to issue modified audit reports and they charge lower audit fees for clients that are listed only in China. Finally, companies listed only in China have larger signed abnormal accruals than do companies cross-listed in Hong Kong. Overall, we conclude that the weak institutional environment in China results in the Big Four firms providing lower quality audits to companies that are listed only in China.

Keywords: Audit quality, Big Four, Institutional environment, Cross listing, China

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Bin and Lennox, Clive and Xin, Qingquan, The Effect of China's Weak Institutional Environment on the Quality of Big Four Audits (October 15, 2014). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Anderson
Taking stock in China: Company disclosure and information in China's stock markets
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 2000
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives vs. standards: Properties of accounting numbers in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 70 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
958
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,269
RANK
55,531
9 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies