Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence and Fair Value Accounting: An Examination of Non-Audit Fees and Goodwill Impairments

54 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2014 Last revised: 31 Dec 2018

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Terry L. Neal

University of Tennessee

Lauren C. Reid

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 16, 2018

Abstract

Inadequate testing of fair value accounting estimates, including goodwill, is often cited as an audit deficiency in PCAOB inspection reports, and, in some cases, these deficiencies have led to enforcement actions against the auditor. As a result of these issues, the PCAOB recently proposed a new auditing standard for fair value accounting. While these regulatory actions suggest that auditors are challenged by the fair value regime of accounting for goodwill, they also highlight an area where the auditor could be influenced by their financial ties to a client. In this study, we test whether non-audit fees are associated with goodwill impairment decision outcomes. Our results indicate that the non-audit fees a client pays are inversely related to the likelihood of impairment in settings where goodwill is likely to be impaired. Additional examinations suggest that the negative relation between non-audit fees and auditor independence is driven by clients who are most incentivized to exert their influence over the auditor.

Keywords: goodwill impairments; fair value estimates; auditor independence; non-audit service fees

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Neal, Terry L. and Reid, Lauren C. and Shipman, Jonathan E., Auditor Independence and Fair Value Accounting: An Examination of Non-Audit Fees and Goodwill Impairments (October 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2511340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2511340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting Discretion in Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S A Agrawal , Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005-10
Crossref
Aicpa
Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting Posted: 2004
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
765
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,892
RANK
75,449
6 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies