Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Emerging Growth Company Status on IPO: Auditor Effort, Valuation, and Underpricing

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2014 Last revised: 17 Aug 2018

Tiffany Westfall

Ball State University

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 14, 2015

Abstract

The Securities Act of 1933 governs the going public process and the accompanying registration statement submissions to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups (JOBS) Act of 2012 created several accommodations under the SEC securities laws for a new group of companies referred to as “emerging growth companies” (EGCs). We examine the associations between auditor effort, initial public offering (IPO) offer prices, and investors’ perceptions of the registrants’ intrinsic value (underpricing) and EGCs’ registration statements utilizing accommodations to reduce financial statement information disclosure. Our finding that auditor effort is reduced suggests that the potential for increased auditor risk for EGCs future financial statements could be higher because of issues related to financial statements not included in the registration statements. We also find a negative (positive) association between EGC filing and IPO offer prices (underpricing). Our results suggest potential unintended consequences associated with EGCs and that auditor effort might not be sufficient to reduce the possibility of future financial statement failures.

Keywords: Initial Public Offering, Information Asymmetry, Auditor Risk, Underpricing

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Westfall, Tiffany and Omer, Thomas C., The Emerging Growth Company Status on IPO: Auditor Effort, Valuation, and Underpricing (April 14, 2015). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2512605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The Economic Costs of Conflict: A Case Study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 112 - 132 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies (ACSPC). 2006. Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
Crossref
Sumit Agarwal , Sudip Gupta , Ryan D. Israelsen
Public and Private Information: Firm Disclosure, SEC Letters, and the JOBS Act
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2891089, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-4, Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University Research Paper No. 2891089 Pages: 70 Posted: 29 Dec 2016 Last revised: 17 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Arnold , R Fishe , D North
The effects of ambiguous information on initial and subsequent IPO returns
Financial Management , volume 39 , p. 1497 - 1519 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,119
RANK
165,258
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies