Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limiting Auditors’ Liability: The Case For (and Against) EU Intervention

Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance, Vol. 39, 2014, 585-597

Posted: 21 Oct 2014

Niels J. Philipsen

Maastricht University - Faculty of Law, Metro

Date Written: October 20, 2014

Abstract

This paper addresses auditors’ liability in the light of the current competition problems in the market for statutory audits and actions taken by the European Commission. First, it will be explained that there is a lack of competition in the market for audits of large and quoted companies. Middle-tier firms are not willing to enter this market, inter alia, because of high litigation risks and problems in the insurance market. Second, Commission Recommendation 2008/437 will be analysed from an economic perspective. Interestingly, the Commission suggests various options for limiting liability, but leaves the choice between those instruments to Member States. The need to limit auditors’ liability will be addressed in the context of the economic theory of regulation, with a focus on the European context. The central question, therefore, is whether there is a need for the EU to intervene and whether the existing Recommendation is the right instrument.

Keywords: auditors; liability caps; liability insurance; professional regulation

JEL Classification: K13, K39, L51

Suggested Citation:

Philipsen, N. J., Limiting Auditors’ Liability: The Case For (and Against) EU Intervention (October 20, 2014). Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance, Vol. 39, 2014, 585-597, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512264
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies