Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sexism, Statements, and Audits

37 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2014 Last revised: 13 Sep 2016

Eric Schniter

Center for the Study of Human Nature - CSUF; Chapman University - George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics - Economic Science Institute

Timothy W. Shields

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics; Chapman University - Economic Science Institute

Date Written: September 12, 2016

Abstract

Within the context of auditor and issuer interaction, we examine the relationship between sexist stereotypes and sexual discrimination using laboratory experiments. Examining archival data, researchers have hypothesized gender differences in financial misstatement and auditing based on stereotypes of cautious and ethical females. To investigate these aspects of sexism we presented males and females with incentivized belief elicitation tasks about anticipated interaction behaviors and then a series of strategic-communication game decisions in male and females interactions. Feedback about belief accuracy, actual behaviors, and earnings was only given after completing a full set of belief elicitations and interactions. Before feedback, both genders stereotyped the other gender’s behavior propensities as relatively different than their own gender’s. Both genders’ stereotyped males as more likely to misstate and engage in risky auditing than females, and while both genders discriminated based on target gender, we find no gender differences per se; males’ and females’ behavior was similar. Consistent with a statistical discrimination account of sexism, stereotypes and game behaviors were adjusted after feedback to more accurately reflect and predict others’ behaviors.

Keywords: sexism, gender, stereotype, discrimination, audit

JEL Classification: A13, D03, J14, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Schniter, Eric and Shields, Timothy W., Sexism, Statements, and Audits (September 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2518094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2518094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
J Archer
Sex differences in social behavior: are the social role and evolutionary explanations compatible?
American Psychologist , volume 51 , issue 9 Posted: 1996
Crossref
K Arrow
The theory of discrimination
Discrimination in Labor Markets , volume 3 , p. 3 - 33 Posted: 1973
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', Auditors', and Lenders' Understanding of the Message Conveyed by the Standard Audit Report on the Financial Statements. Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R D Ashmore , F K Boca
Conceptual approaches to stereotypes and stereotyping
Cognitive Processes in Stereotyping and Intergroup Behavior , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,937
RANK
359,301
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies