Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Satyam Failure and Changes in Indian Audit Committees

IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 471

20 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2014

R. Narayanaswamy

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Kannan Raghunandan

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Dasaratha V. Rama

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: November 7, 2014

Abstract

Audit committees have received considerable attention globally in recent years. We examine the effects of the Satyam failure on changes in the composition and functioning of Indian audit committees. A corporate collapse that shook India’s markets and regulators, and widely noted of as “India’s Enron”, should have led to major improvements in the functioning of audit committees of Indian companies. Our empirical results show that the Satyam failure had a limited effect on Indian audit committees.

Keywords: audit committee; Satyam; India; corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Narayanaswamy, Ramaswami and Raghunandan, Kannan and Rama, Dasaratha, Satyam Failure and Changes in Indian Audit Committees (November 7, 2014). IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 471, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2520414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K R Balachandran , A Dossi , W Van Der Stede
Corporate Governance Research in
The Rest of the World". Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 529 Posted: 2010
The flight of directors Posted: 2009-01-24
J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , Z Ye
Corporate governance research in accounting and auditing: Insights, practice implications, and future research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J R Cohen , G Krishnamoorthy , A M Wright
Corporate governance in the postSarbanes-Oxley era: Auditors' experiences
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 751 - 786 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Géraldine Broye , Pauline Johannes
Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research
Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, · 52 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
663
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,010
RANK
90,776
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies