Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EC Proposal of Audit-Only Firms: Discussing the Potential Effects of Breaking the 'Audit Oligopoly' on Accounting and Audit Quality

China-USA Business Review 12 (April 2013), 331-348

Posted: 10 Nov 2014

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Markus Stiglbauer

University of Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU)

Date Written: October 12, 2012

Abstract

This article discusses the interdiction of combining audit and not audit services by the external auditor, which the EU Commission (EC) is presently discussing as reform measures in its regulation draft of November 30, 2011. According to an agency-theoretical definition of the auditor’s function within corporate governance, results of the empirical audit research on the effects of an auditor’s combined audit and non audit services on accounting and audit quality are laid out in a state-of-the-art analysis to give a policy advice. We analyze, whether the interdiction of combining audit and non audit services has a negative impact on the quality of financial accounting and audit as EC assumes. For this purpose a selection of variables for approximate rating of the quality of financial accounting (earnings management, restatements, market reactions) and the quality of external audit (going concern opinions) will be used. So far, research suggests an inconsistent image mainly in the U.S. capital market. Therefore a negative impact of an auditor’s offering audit and non audit services on the quality of accounting and audit can mainly only be concluded by few variables (earnings management, market reactions). Those studies, which use restatements and going concern opinions as a proxy for accounting and audit quality, come to inconsistent results. Consequently, the benefit of the reform presently discussed by the EC is arguable. Moreover, so far there are only a few empirical studies for the EU member states analyzing the impact of combined audit and non audit services, thus providing evidence for the necessity of this course of action.

Keywords: empirical audit research, auditor independence, non audit fees, audit fees, earnings management, restatements, market reactions, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Stiglbauer, Markus, EC Proposal of Audit-Only Firms: Discussing the Potential Effects of Breaking the 'Audit Oligopoly' on Accounting and Audit Quality (October 12, 2012). China-USA Business Review 12 (April 2013), 331-348 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2521059
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies