Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increased Auditor Independence by External Rotation and Separating Audit and Non Audit Duties? - A Note on the European Audit Regulation

Journal of Governance and Regulation 3 (2014), 53-62

10 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2014 Last revised: 14 Oct 2017

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: May 9, 2014

Abstract

The European audit reform contains the implementation of an external mandatory auditor rotation (audit firm rotation) and a separation of audit and non audit duties to increase auditor independence. The central question is, whether these regulation measures are connected with an increased accounting and audit quality. First, this article presents an agency theoretical foundation of auditor independence. Then, a state of the art analysis of empirical research illustrates these ambivalent results, so that the economic need for the audit market regulation in Europe is controversial.

Keywords: low balling, audit quality, empirical audit research, auditor independence, rotation, audit market concentration, consulting, audit fees, principal agent theory, expectation gap

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Eulerich, Marc, Increased Auditor Independence by External Rotation and Separating Audit and Non Audit Duties? - A Note on the European Audit Regulation (May 9, 2014). Journal of Governance and Regulation 3 (2014), 53-62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2521021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 68 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
AICPA (1992) Statement of Position Regarding Mandatory Rotation of Audit firms of Publicly Held Companies
Alcarria Jaime , J De Albornoz , B Noguer
Specification and power of cross-sectional abnormal working capital accruals models in the Spanish context
European Accounting Review , volume 13 , p. 73 - 104 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A A Al-Thuneibat , R T I Issa , R A A Baker
Do audit tenure and firm size contribute to audit quality
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , p. 317 - 334 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
190,991
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies