Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Rotation of the Auditor

Journal of Management Control (JoMaC) 22 (2012), 81-91

Posted: 10 Nov 2014

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: January 4, 2012

Abstract

The European Commission (EC) discusses in her regulation draft of 2011 the external mandatory auditor rotation (audit firm rotation) principally after six years as a reform measure to increase auditor independence, which could complement the internal mandatory rotation (auditor rotation) by the 8th EC directive of 2006. First, the present short survey paper contains a theoretical foundation of audit firm rotation, whereby the influences on low balling will be discussed. Furthermore, the paper gives a review of the empirical auditor change research. In contrast to the perception of the EC, the empirical results mainly don’t state an increased financial accounting and audit quality by an external rotation of the auditor.

Keywords: Empirical auditor change research, Low balling, Audit quality, Earnings management

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, External Rotation of the Auditor (January 4, 2012). Journal of Management Control (JoMaC) 22 (2012), 81-91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2521048
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies