Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Geography of REIT Audit Service Investments

International Real Estate Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2014 Last revised: 4 Jan 2018

Ran Lu-Andrews

California Lutheran University, School of Management

Yin Yu-Thompson

Oakland University

Date Written: August 31, 2015

Abstract

We examine the geographic component of the audit service investments in REIT industry. Because REIT firms have strong incentive for information transparency and high audit quality, we expect that geographic distances, as a proxy for information flow, between REIT firms, their auditors, and the SEC offices have effects on the audit fees and non-audit fees paid by REIT firms. We find that 1) REIT firms pay more audit fees and non-audit fees to their auditor when the REIT firm headquarters are located closer to the SEC offices. 2) REIT firms pay higher audit and non-audit fees when their auditor offices are closer to the SEC. 3) REIT firms pay higher audit fees and non-audit fees when their auditor offices are located closer to their headquarters. 4) REIT firms that are closest to both the SEC and the auditors pay the highest fees in both audit services and non-audit services. The results are consistent with our expectation that REIT firms desire high quality audit service and are willing to pay higher fees for it. Also, REIT industry may enjoy the knowledge spillovers between audit side and non-audit side and the industry specialization from their auditors.

Keywords: REIT, Audit Fees, Non-Audit Fees, Geography, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: G00, M40, M41, R10

Suggested Citation:

Lu-Andrews, Ran and Yu-Thompson, Yin, The Geography of REIT Audit Service Investments (August 31, 2015). International Real Estate Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2522978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2522978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Z Adams , R Fuss , F Schindler
The sources of risk spillovers among U.S. REITs: financial characteristics and regional proximity
Real Estate Economics Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Bar-Yosef , B Sarath
Auditor size, market segmentation and litigation patterns: a theoretical analysis
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , p. 59 - 92 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
RANK
618,773
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies