Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Approach about Earnings Management and Audit Companies: Empirical Evidences from Brazilian Capital Market

FLORES, Eduardo ; SAMPAIO, J. O. ; CHIQUETO, S. Fernando ; CARVALHO, Nelson . A New Approach about Earnings Management and Audit Companies: Empirical Evidences from Brazilian Capital Market. International Business Research, 2015.

14 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2014 Last revised: 28 Mar 2015

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo (USP)

Joelson Oliveira Sampaio

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Economics

Fernando Chiqueto da Silva

University of São Paulo (USP)

Nelson Carvalho

FEA-USP

Date Written: November 11, 2014

Abstract

The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the discretionary accruals of Brazilian public companies would reveal changes as a result of the big four firm that audits them, and whether the companies served by firms of less importance in the sector would denote different behaviors in comparison to those contracting the largest four. For this purpose was formed a sample with 7,875 observations originating from 44 quarters from the period of 1998 to 2009, emphasizing the non-inclusion of the other years due to the Brazilian IFRS harmonization. Statistical estimations were carried out based on this sample using the panel data approach. The results showed differences in the discretionary accruals regardless of the size of the audit firm, and also indicated adverse patterns between clients of the four largest firms. Thus it was established that for the Brazilian capital market, simple segregation between big four and others does not appear to make any sense, contrary to the recommendations of literature. Such benchmarking suggests that future surveys conducted in this jurisdiction, which require the use of the auditor control variable, should do so by means of the inclusion of five groups, one for each large auditing company and one for smaller audit firms

Keywords: Earnings Management, Big Four, Non-Big Four, Brazilian Capital Market

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Flores, Eduardo and Sampaio, Joelson Oliveira and Chiqueto da Silva, Fernando and Carvalho, Nelson, A New Approach about Earnings Management and Audit Companies: Empirical Evidences from Brazilian Capital Market (November 11, 2014). FLORES, Eduardo ; SAMPAIO, J. O. ; CHIQUETO, S. Fernando ; CARVALHO, Nelson . A New Approach about Earnings Management and Audit Companies: Empirical Evidences from Brazilian Capital Market. International Business Research, 2015., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2523047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2523047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
B J M Almeida
Aná lise comparativa das filosofias de auditoria
Revista de Contabilidade e Finanç as -USP Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnam , J Young
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Steven Balsam , Jagan Krishnan , Joon S. Yang
Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, September 2003 Pages: 46 Posted: 29 Sep 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Blouin , B Grein , B Rountree
An analysis of forced auditor change: The case of former arthur andersen clients
The Accounting Review Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,173
RANK
493,078
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies