Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grounding the Professional Skepticism Construct in Mindset and Attitude Theory: A Way Forward

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2014 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: January 27, 2018

Abstract

The concept of professional skepticism is pervasive throughout auditing standards, and inspectors around the globe often identify a lack of skepticism as a root cause of audit deficiencies (IFIAR, 2015, 2016). Despite its importance, the professional skepticism construct remains ill-defined and measurements used in research do not map well into practice. The purpose of this paper is to develop a conceptualization of professional skepticism that will facilitate the conduct of research with meaningful implications for practice, providing a way forward for skepticism researchers. To that end, we propose a dual conceptualization of professional skepticism as both a mindset and an attitude, and we rely on mindset and attitude theory to develop measures of each component. Mindsets drive cognitive processing, and the mindset component captures the critical thinking that is an important element of professional skepticism and is required by standards. Including the mindset component reflects the idea that skepticism involves critical analysis of evidence, and not just doubt. Attitudes include affective and cognitive components to predict intentions and behavior, and attitudes recognize the influence of social factors on evaluative judgments. Including an attitude component thus expands the notion of evaluation to include auditors’ feelings, as well as their beliefs, about risk, and it improves the predictive power of “skepticism” for auditors’ evidence collection. We expect that our skeptical mindset and skeptical attitude theoretical approach will move the literature forward, especially in terms of framing standards, developing interventions to improve audit quality, and performing root cause analyses.

Keywords: professional skepticism, auditor judgment, mindset, cognitive processing, attitude

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G10

Suggested Citation:

Nolder, Christine J. and Kadous, Kathryn, Grounding the Professional Skepticism Construct in Mindset and Attitude Theory: A Way Forward (January 27, 2018). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2524573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2524573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
A Achtziger , P M Gollwitzer
Motivation und Volition im Handlungsverlauf
Motivation und Handeln , p. 309 - 335 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality and Behaviour Posted: 2005
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Understanding attitudes and predicting social behavior Posted: 1980
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 82 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,957
RANK
29,234
62 Citations
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies