Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of 'Debiasing Framing Effects in Auditor's Internal Control Judgments and Testing Decisions'

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 14, No. 2, Summer 1997

Posted: 22 Nov 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 1997

Abstract

It gives me great pleasure to be the discussant of the paper by Emby and Finley. My comments are divided into three parts. First, I shall briefly summarize the paper and its key findings. Then I shall review the context of the paper and raise questions about the authors' interpretation of their study and findings. Finally, I shall conclude with a brief summary of my comments.

Summary of Emby and Finley's paper: The authors gave auditors materials summarizing internal control strengths and weaknesses. The background information provided in both scenarios was identical. They asked the subjects to plan substantive tests to be carried out in connection with the inventory audit. Then, they gave subjects one of two version of a set of additional information about seven internal control cues and asked them to make a revised decision about the extent of substantive testing required. When they asked the subjects to base their decision on internal control strengths, they obtained one result. When they asked the subjects to make the same decision based on internal control risks, they obtained another result. The differences in extent of substantive tests proposed were significant. The authors interpret this finding to be an instance of a framing effect.

Furthermore, the authors found that when they asked a subset of the subjects to consider all the control related information cues one by one and to rate the direction and relevance of the evidence, the framing effect disappeared. The authors interpret this finding as an example of an effective debiasing technique for eliminating the effects of the "framing bias" induced by using the word risks in one version of the task and the word strengths in another version of the task.

The paper is deceptively simple. It is well written, clear, and uncluttered. The design appears to be straightforward, and the findings are significant and noteworthy. I like the use of the initial judgment as a covariate in the analysis, which is competently carried our and clearly described. Although the paper appears to be simple, I believe that it provides us with an opportunity to consider a number of very subtle issues.

Keywords: internal control, debiasing technique, framing bias

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim, Discussion of 'Debiasing Framing Effects in Auditor's Internal Control Judgments and Testing Decisions' (1997). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 14, No. 2, Summer 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2528731
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies