Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Evidence on the Importance of Auditor Choice to Corporate Debt Maturity

Contemporary Accounting Research

59 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2014 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Sorin Rizeanu

University of Victoria

Date Written: November 27, 2014

Abstract

We examine the importance of Big Four audits in reducing agency costs evident in corporate debt maturity worldwide. Analyzing a large sample of public firms from 42 countries reveals that the fraction of long-term debt in firms’ capital structures rises with the presence of a Big Four auditor, suggesting that higher-quality audits substitute for short-term debt for monitoring purposes. In additional analyses, we find that the role that auditor choice plays in debt maturity is concentrated in firms from countries with strong legal institutions governing property rights and creditor rights. Collectively, our research implies that Big Four audits matter to corporate debt maturity, although the impact is isolated in firms operating in countries with more protective legal regimes.

Keywords: Audit quality, corporate governance, legal institutions, debt maturity

JEL Classification: G34; G32

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Rizeanu, Sorin, Cross-Country Evidence on the Importance of Auditor Choice to Corporate Debt Maturity (November 27, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2531466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
Armstrong C , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
K-H Bae , V K Goyal
Creditor rights, enforcement, and bank loans
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
R Ball , R Bushman , F Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
M J Barclay , C W Smith
The maturity structure of corporate debt
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 609 - 631 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,280
RANK
264,566
5 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies