Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IP Audits Evaluation

Posted: 29 Nov 2014

Joy Mhonda

Independent

Douglas Dalziel

Independent

Date Written: November 28, 2014

Abstract

The research was conducted amongst businesses participating in the programme between November 2011 and March 2013.

The objectives of the research were to measure:

• actions taken following the Intellectual Property (IP) audit and the impact of these changes within businesses • understanding as to whether receipt of the IP Audit and engagement with the opportunities highlighted in the audit has increased small and medium enterprises (SMEs) awareness and access to the IP system • perceptions of the report and recommendations of the IP Audit The results from the research will inform how the programme is implemented in the future.

Suggested Citation:

Mhonda, Joy and Dalziel, Douglas, IP Audits Evaluation (November 28, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2531691
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies