Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Expert Systems with Complex Outputs: The Case of Audit Planning

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory., Fall 1992, Vol. 11 Issue 2, pp. 14-29

Posted: 2 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Anthony Wensley

J.L.Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: 1992

Abstract

Describes a set of tests designed to evaluate the performance of CAPEX, an expert system designed to generate substantive audit program plans for the revenue/receivable/receipts cycle of manufacturing, retailing, and banking firms. Better performance of CAPEX in comparison with human experts; Evaluation criteria; Participants in evaluation process; Evaluation instruments.

Keywords: expert systems, auditing

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Wensley, Anthony, Evaluating Expert Systems with Complex Outputs: The Case of Audit Planning (1992). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory., Fall 1992, Vol. 11 Issue 2, pp. 14-29, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532588
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies