Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
1998 Audit Symposium Panel Discussion on Assurance Services

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 17, Supplement 1998, pp. 131-151

Posted: 2 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

D. Cockburn

Independent

Date Written: 1998

Abstract

This article presents information related to issues discussed at the 1998 Audit Symposium. Presenting their views on traditional audit, experts commented that they didn't really know what opportunities existed in the assurance market but some early indications showed that in fact the market was shifting, not from the point of view that people trusted each other any more than they ever did, but from the point of view that historical financial information was becoming less relevant. Other sources of information were becoming more relevant. Commenting about career openings in the assurance sector Gail Sergenian professor at the Suffolk University said that their intake is becoming correspondingly larger from sources possessing business knowledge. The sense of getting a broad understanding of what makes up business performance measures, how reliable they are and how one make them more reliable. Pricing of assurance services was another important issue discussed an experts felt that pricing is typically a cost oriented phenomenon in most professional service firms and there was reference made to the rather substantial financial success of our friends in law offices and underwriting offices who tend to be more value-oriented in their pricing activities.

Keywords: assurance services, compliance auditing, pricing, profit margins

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Cockburn, D., 1998 Audit Symposium Panel Discussion on Assurance Services (1998). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 17, Supplement 1998, pp. 131-151, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532563
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
946
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies