Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Tenure and Audit Qualifications in Spain: A Multinomial Approach

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 1, Issue 1, 2014

28 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2014

Josep Garcia-Blandon

IQS School of Management (Universitat Ramon Llull)

Josep M. Argilés‐Bosch

University of Barcelona

Monica Martinez-Blasco

IQS School of Management-Universitat Ramon Llull

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

The Green Paper on Audit Policy by the European Commission has questioned the current regulatory framework of audit rotation in the European Union and it has encouraged additional research about the effects of long audit firm tenures on independence. Prior research has mostly limited to examine audit qualifications for reasons of going concern with samples of financially distressed firms. Such approach presents limitations in terms of the generalization of results. The approach we propose allows, on the one hand, for the inclusion of all types of audit qualifications in the analysis; while, on the other hand, it takes into account the particularly serious implications of going-concern qualified opinions for both, the auditor and the audited firm. Our results show that auditors seem willing to sacrifice independence in lengthy engagements, but only regarding non-going-concern qualified opinions. This result might have some interesting implications for policy makers, particularly in the current discussion about the necessity of mandatory audit firm rotation. If, as most papers do, we measure auditor independence only through the issuance of going-concern opinions, a mandatory firm rotation rule does not seem to be necessary. However, if all types of qualifications are considered, mandatory firm rotation could increase independence.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Audit firm tenure, Accounting quality, Multinomial logistic model, Litigation risk

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Blandon, Josep and Argiles-Bosch, Josep M. and Martinez-Blasco, Monica, Audit Firm Tenure and Audit Qualifications in Spain: A Multinomial Approach (December 1, 2014). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 1, Issue 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E C Ameen , K Chan , D M Guffey
Information content of qualified audit opinions for over-the-counter firms
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 21 , p. 997 - 1011 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R Ball , R G Walker , G P Whittred
Audit qualifications and share prices
Abacus , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 34 Posted: 1979
Crossref
M Bradshaw , S Richardson , R Sloan
Do analysts and auditors use information in accruals?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Butler , A Leone , M Willenborg
An empirical analysis of auditor reporting and its association with abnormal accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 139 - 165 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,122
RANK
368,259
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies