Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scheduling Internal Audit Activities

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Fall 1986, Vol. 6, Issue 1, pp. 1-19

Posted: 2 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

D. S. Broca

Independent

Date Written: 1986

Abstract

The determination of an audit schedule over a fixed future period constitutes a crucial part of the planning activities in an internal audit department. For each auditable unit, this problem basically revolves around tradeoffs between two types of costs: audit costs and the expected losses that accrue in the absence of auditing. Given data on risk scores, maximum allowable loss, and cost behavior, audit schedules can be determined through a variety of management science techniques. These range from traditional unconstrained optimization to systematic computations for balancing the cost tradeoffs. The objective of this paper is to demonstrate the relative application potential of these models by focusing on their structure, assumptions, and solution methods. The final choice of a model depends, inter-alia, on whether it yields a "good" allocation of audit activity over the planning horizon for the entire portfolio of auditable units taken together.

Keywords: auditing, internal auditing, cost, progress reports, audit departments, management controls, managerial accounting

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Broca, D. S., Scheduling Internal Audit Activities (1986). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Fall 1986, Vol. 6, Issue 1, pp. 1-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532597
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies