Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structuring the Assessment of Audit Evidence -- An Expert Systems Approach

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 1990 Supplement, Vol. 9, pp. 49-87

Posted: 2 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Anthony Wensley

J.L.Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: 1990

Abstract

The article informs that in conducting an audit, the auditor is required to express an opinion concerning a client's financial statements. The construction of an audit plan or the evaluation of a completed or partially completed audit program usually requires the auditor to make a large number of interrelated judgments. However, since much of the previous research into the construction and validation of expert systems has been concerned with the construction and validation of knowledge-bases, the methodology is directly derived from expert system development methodology.

Keywords: financial statements, auditor-client relationships, audit trails, auditing procedures, information theory, guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Wensley, Anthony, Structuring the Assessment of Audit Evidence -- An Expert Systems Approach (1990). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 1990 Supplement, Vol. 9, pp. 49-87, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532592
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Information Technology & Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies