Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of: Expert and Novice Problem-Solving Behavior in Audit Planning

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 1992 Supplement, Vol. 11, pp. 21-32

Posted: 2 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 1992

Abstract

The article presents the author's views on the problem-solving behavior of expert and novice auditors in audit planning. According to the author, independence and integrity are the essence of the accounting profession, followed by professional competence and proficiency. The novice learns to recognize various objective facts and features, as well as action rules for responding to observed facts and features. Experts merely do what comes naturally. Rules are not applied, decisions are not made and problems are not solved. Experience-based holistic recognition of similarity produces deep situational understanding. In auditing, there do not appear to be unambiguous objective criteria for evaluating the quality of audit judgments or audit judgment processes. Performance measures are relatively subjective and context-dependent. Auditors who, among their skills, possess good professional judgment may be selected for tenure through successive promotion. Conversely, auditors without such skills may be terminated.

Keywords: decision making, auditors, auditing, quality assurance

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim, Discussion of: Expert and Novice Problem-Solving Behavior in Audit Planning (1992). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 1992 Supplement, Vol. 11, pp. 21-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532590
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Information Technology & Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies