Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Audit Quality and Ownership Structure: Interaction and Impact on Earnings Management of Industrial and Commercial Tunisian Sectors

Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 19, p. 78, 2014

12 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2014

Amel Kouaib

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Anis Jarboui

Independent; University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Date Written: December 3, 2014

Abstract

This article emphasizes the significance of researching the cross effect of using jointly external audit quality and ownership structure over managerial discretion in a largely unexplored, non-Western and emerging context. The analysis is based on a sample of 61 Tunisian firms listed and unlisted on the Tunis Stock Exchange and operating in the industrial and commercial sectors during the period 2007-2011. To provide evidence on this topic, we conduct an empirical examination. First, we examine the effect of external audit quality and ownership structure on the discretionary accruals for the whole sample. We find that only auditor reputation has a negative and significant effect on earnings management. Second, this article provides empirical evidence on the cross effect of external audit quality variables and capital concentration on earnings management. This test suggests that this combination has a negative and significant effect on earnings management in industrial firms but it has a positive and non significant effect in commercial firms. Finally, the third empirical test concerns the combined effect of external audit quality and institutional property on earnings management. We find that the cross effect of this combined relation is negatively and significantly associated with earnings management of industrial firms but it has no significant effect on the earnings management of commercial firms. As for the cross effect of the auditor seniority and the institutional property, it has a positive and a significant effect in the commercial sectors, while, it is positively and non-significantly associated with earnings management of industrial firms.

Keywords: External audit quality, Ownership structure, Discretionary accruals, Cross effect

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Kouaib, Amel and Jarboui, Anis and Jarboui, Anis, External Audit Quality and Ownership Structure: Interaction and Impact on Earnings Management of Industrial and Commercial Tunisian Sectors (December 3, 2014). Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 19, p. 78, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2533641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Agnes Cheng , C S Reitenga , A
Characteristics of institutional investors and discretionary accruals
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 26 Posted: 2009
Paul Andre , Géraldine Broye , Christopher K.M. Pong , Alain Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
Pages: 52 Posted: 12 Apr 2012 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Anis
Auditors' perceptions of audit firm rotation impact on audit quality in Egypt
Accounting & Taxation , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 2014
M Allen , O Jacob , S Israel
Ownership structure and performance: Evidence from the public float in IPOs
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 40 , p. 54 - 61 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,030
RANK
132,602
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies