Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Experimental Study of the Effects of Elicitation Methods on Review of Preliminary Audit Strategy by External Auditors

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 392, Spring 1988

Posted: 6 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Brian Gaber

York University - Accounting School of Administrative Studies

William Morley Lemon

University of Waterloo

Date Written: 1988

Abstract

This paper reports the results of an empirical investigation of auditor judgment involving the assessment of audit risk and planning of an audit strategy. The study focuses on whether methodological techniques used for conducting research affect decision behavior; in particular, whether silent versus think-aloud elicitations of auditor responses lead to different responses. Auditors performed the experimental tasks under two methods of eliciting responses: they responded to half of the cases silently, and to the other half while thinking aloud into a tape recorder. Comparisons of the silent and aloud responses suggest a systematic influence exerted by method of eliciting responses, but one which varies depending on the subjects' positions in the firm and the particular judgment being made.

Keywords: auditors, auditing, audit risk, accounting methods, research, decision making, repsonse rates, alternative approaches in education, problem solving, auditing standards judgement

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Gaber, Brian and Lemon, William Morley, An Experimental Study of the Effects of Elicitation Methods on Review of Preliminary Audit Strategy by External Auditors (1988). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 392, Spring 1988, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534075
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies