Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Perceptions of Audit Workloads, Audit Quality, and Job Satisfaction

Forthcoming at Accounting Horizons

48 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2014 Last revised: 12 Jul 2019

Julie Persellin

Trinity University

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Scott D. Vandervelde

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: July 11, 2019

Abstract

In this study, we use a survey instrument to obtain perspectives from over 700 auditors about present-day audit workloads and the relationship between audit workloads, audit quality, and job satisfaction. Our findings indicate that auditors are working, on average, five hours per week above the threshold at which they believe audit quality begins to deteriorate and often 20 hours above this threshold at the peak of busy season. Survey respondents perceive deadlines and staffing shortages as two of the primary reasons for high workloads and further believe that high workloads result in decreased audit quality via compromised audit procedures, impaired audit judgment, and difficulty retaining staff with appropriate knowledge and skills. We also find that auditors’ job satisfaction and their excitement about auditing as a career are negatively impacted by high audit workload, particularly when the workload exceeds a threshold that is perceived to impair audit quality. Overall, our findings provide support for the PCAOB’s recent concern that heavy workloads are continuing to threaten audit quality, and suggest that the primary drivers of workload (i.e., deadlines and staffing problems) might be the actual “root cause” of workload-related audit deficiencies.

Keywords: auditing, audit quality, audit workloads, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M42, M12

Suggested Citation:

Persellin, Julie and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Vandervelde, Scott D. and Wilkins, Michael S., Auditor Perceptions of Audit Workloads, Audit Quality, and Job Satisfaction (July 11, 2019). Forthcoming at Accounting Horizons, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2534492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E D Almer , S E Kaplan
The effects of flexible work arrangements on stressors, burnout, and behavioral job outcomes in public accounting
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Buchheit , D W Dalton , N L Harp , C W Hollingsworth
A contemporary analysis of accounting professionals' work-life balance
Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 62 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J V Carcello , R H Hermanson , N T Mcgrath
Audit Quality Attributes: The Perceptions of Partners, Preparers, and Financial Statement Users
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , issue Spring , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1992
Load more
50 Citations
Adrien B. Bonache , Kenneth J. Smith
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research
, p. 195 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Brant E. Christensen , Steven M. Glover , Thomas C. Omer , Marjorie K. Shelley
Understanding Audit Quality: Insights from Audit Professionals and Investors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1648 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Gatot Soepriyanto , Meiryani Meiryani , Aretha Amelia , Jajat Sudrajat
The effect of workload and burnout on auditor performance during the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 8 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Christine E. Earley , Karen L. Hooks , Jenifer R. Joe , Paul W. Polinski , Zabihollah Rezaee , Pamela B. Roush , Kerri-Ann Sanderson , Yi-Jing Wu
The Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association's Response to the International Auditing and Assurance Standard's Board's Invitation to Comment: Enhancing Audit Quality in the Public Interest
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. C1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,194
RANK
14,790
50 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies