Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Research Method on Audit Planning and Review Judgments

Journal of Accounting Research, 1986, Vol. 24, Issue 2, pp. 335-348

Posted: 6 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 1986

Abstract

This article presents a discussion of research on the effects of different response elicitation methods on the audit planning and review judgments. The study involved 40 auditors, at five different levels of expertise, who reviewed the audit strategy of a hypothetical senior and provided evaluations of the original plan, a revised set of plans, and reports of their difficulty in making the required judgments. The materials included a list of observations about strengths and weaknesses in the client's sales, receivables, and receipts system, as observed and recorded by the hypothetical auditor and an audit plan.

Keywords: auditors, auditing procedures, audit departments, accounting firms, problem solving, accounting methods, accounts receivable, financial planning, auditing standards

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim, The Effect of Research Method on Audit Planning and Review Judgments (1986). Journal of Accounting Research, 1986, Vol. 24, Issue 2, pp. 335-348, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534083
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
830
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies