Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Expert Systems Approach to Substantive Audit Planning

Expert Systems with Applications, 1991, Vol. 3, pp. 27-49

Posted: 6 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Anthony Wensley

J.L.Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: January 1, 1991

Abstract

An audit planning expert system developed by the authors over the last 4 years is described. The system, referred to by the acronym CAPEX (Canadian Audit Planning Expert System), is designed to construct substantive audit program plans using a risk-oriented assertion-based approach.

This paper is divided into four sections. The first section provides some background information about research in this area, introduces the research objectives behind the development of the system, and provides an overview of CAPEX. The second section discusses the knowledge base and the representation of the different types of audit planning knowledge in CAPEX. The third section discusses the validation tests performed on the system. The final section addresses a number of specific problems encountered during system construction and research questions that have been raised by this project.

Keywords: audit planning, expert system devlopment, CAPEX

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Wensley, Anthony, An Expert Systems Approach to Substantive Audit Planning (January 1, 1991). Expert Systems with Applications, 1991, Vol. 3, pp. 27-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534089
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies