Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Computer-Assisted Functions for Auditing XBRL-Related Documents

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting (2016) 13 (1): 53–83. https://doi.org/10.2308/jeta-51436

Posted: 7 Dec 2014 Last revised: 9 Dec 2021

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Won Gyun No

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

The increasing global adoption of XBRL and its potential to replace traditional formats for business reporting create a need for quality assurance for XBRL-tagged data. Although prior studies have addressed assurance issues on XBRL-related documents (i.e., instance documents and extension taxonomy) and related audit objectives, they primarily focus on the U.S. and, thus, may not be comprehensive enough for use in other countries. Furthermore, no prior literature discusses what and how computer-assisted audit functions can help auditors while they are performing assurance on XBRL-related documents. The main goal of this paper is to introduce computer-assisted audit functions that can be used by auditors to perform audit tasks to attain identified audit objectives. Based on professional guidelines and prior academic studies, this study introduces a set of audit objectives and related audit tasks that auditors might confront if they are asked to provide assurance on XBRL-related documents. The study then demonstrates a set of related computer-assisted audit functions for conducting the audit tasks and discuss how the identified audit objectives could be achieved using these functions.

Keywords: XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language), assurance, computer-assisted auditing tools for XBRL

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and No, Won Gyun, Computer-Assisted Functions for Auditing XBRL-Related Documents (March 1, 2016). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting (2016) 13 (1): 53–83. https://doi.org/10.2308/jeta-51436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2534540
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,426
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies