Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Information Presentation Structures on Audit Planning and Review Judgments

Contemporary Accounting Research, 1985, Vol. 1, Issue 2, pp. 193-218

Posted: 6 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 1985

Abstract

This study examines the effect of data structuring techniques on audit judgments by comparing responses based on information cues arranged according to a hierarchically structured template with the response to identical cues arranged in a simple list. Forty auditors, at five different levels of expertise, reviewed the audit strategy of a hypothetical senior and provided evaluations of the original plan, a revised set of plans, and reports of their difficulty in making the required judgments. The experimental task involved 16 cases, in which types of transaction processing systems (i.e., manual and computerized), and internal control cues, were manipulated in addition to the format of presenting information. Structure of information presentation appears to play a significant role in the evaluations and plans of the auditors, but is considered to contribute substantially to the difficulty of making judgments. In most cases, structure appears to contribute to uniformity of responses; but, in some instances it actually seems to exaggerate differences in auditors' judgments.

Keywords: data structures, auditing, business planning, accounting standards, internal auditing, computerized accounting systems

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim, The Effect of Information Presentation Structures on Audit Planning and Review Judgments (1985). Contemporary Accounting Research, 1985, Vol. 1, Issue 2, pp. 193-218, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534085
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies