Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Benefits and Costs of Appointing Joint Audit Engagement Partners

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, August 2015, Vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 23-46.

Posted: 9 Dec 2014 Last revised: 31 Jul 2015

Kim Ittonen

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Per Tronnes

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: December 9, 2014

Abstract

We investigate whether the practice of voluntarily engaging two audit partners is associated with audit quality and audit fees. Using a sample of listed Finnish and Swedish firms, we find evidence that joint engagement partners may be associated with higher audit quality, but not with higher audit fees. Moreover, the benefits of having joint engagement partners are driven by the cases where the partners are co-located in the same office and the clients’ characteristics suggest the audit will be more challenging than is usual. When the joint engagement partners are from different offices, we find no variation in audit quality from that of single partner audits, but a small reduction in audit fees. We interpret these findings to suggest that two audit partners co-located in the same office increase the effectiveness of the audit, whereas partners from different offices improve the efficiency vis-à-vis that of a single-partner audit. In general, our findings suggest that the benefits of the ‘four eyes principle’ usually attributed to joint audits between two audit firms, are also applicable when there are two jointly responsible engagement partners from the same firm and, importantly, that the costs to clients do not appear to increase.

Keywords: joint auditing, engagement partners, audit quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Ittonen, Kim and Tronnes, Per, Benefits and Costs of Appointing Joint Audit Engagement Partners (December 9, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, August 2015, Vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 23-46. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2535692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies