Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Standards: Accounting for Legitimacy

University of Chicago Press, Forthcoming

8 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2014 Last revised: 8 Jan 2015

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: December 11, 2014

Abstract

I develop the notion of “thin political markets.” These are esoteric areas of market rule-making where corporate managers possess the technical expertise necessary for informed regulation, enjoy strong economic interests in the outcome, and face little political opposition. The motivating phenomenon for thin political markets is the political process of accounting rule-making. I present evidence suggesting that managers use their political and substantive advantage in thin political markets to subtly structure the rules of the game to their advantage. On one level, this action is entirely consistent with the capitalist spirit à la Milton Friedman – “The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits.” But there are serious questions as to whether such actions sustain the long-term legitimacy of market capitalism. In the conclusion, I offer some suggestions on how we might address this problem.

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Karthik, Political Standards: Accounting for Legitimacy (December 11, 2014). University of Chicago Press, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2537088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2537088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Jerold L. Zimmerman
The role of accounting in the twenty-first century firm
Accounting and Business Research , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 485 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Razvan Hoinaru
What are the objectives of corporate reporting? Sustainable value for who?
Proceedings of the International Conference on Business Excellence , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 436 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,287
RANK
271,971
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies