Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Audit Quality Disclosure on Audit Effort and Investment Efficiency

60 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Date Written: February 4, 2018

Abstract

We examine how disclosing information about audit quality affects auditors' effort and investors' investment efficiency. In our setting, the usefulness of audited financial reports for investors depends on both the quality of the underlying financial reporting (e.g., as embodied by GAAP) and the quality of auditors' reports (i.e., the likelihood with which audit evidence uncovers managerial misreporting). An auditor exerts an unobservable effort to influence audit quality and is motivated by liability in the event of audit failure. We show that audit quality disclosure increases auditors' effort incentives only when the underlying financial reporting quality is relatively weak. Our analyses contribute to the debate about the costs and benefits of policies aimed at improving audit transparency.

Keywords: auditing, disclosure, investment efficiency, financial reporting standard, auditing standard

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qi and Jiang, Xu and Zhang, Yun, The Effects of Audit Quality Disclosure on Audit Effort and Investment Efficiency (February 4, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Q Chen , T R Lewis , K Schipper , Y Zhang
Uniform Versus Discretionary Regimes in Reporting Information with Unveri…able Precision and a Coordination Role
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 153 - 196 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Q Chen , I Goldstein , W Jiang
Price informativeness and investment sensitivity to stock price
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 650 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Deng , N Melumad , T Shibano
Auditors' Liability, Investments, and Capital Markets: A Potential Unintended Consequence of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1179 - 1215 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R A Dye
Auditing standards, legal liability, and auditor wealth
Journal of political Economy , p. 887 - 914 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,080
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,686
RANK
47,135
4 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies