Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Section 201 of SOX on the Relationship between Audit and Non-Audit Fees

RAHMAN, MJ (2015) Impact of Section 201 of SOX on the Relationship Between Audit and Non-Audit fees. Corporate Ownership and Control/Volume 12, Issue 2

11 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2014 Last revised: 28 May 2020

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the changes that the prohibition of the non-audit services by section 201 of SOX brought in the relationship between the audit fees and non-audit fees. Both univariate and multivatiate regression methodologies has been used to test the hypotheses. Using both OLS and two-stage least squares, this study find a weak positive relationship between audit fees and non-audit fees. This result suggests that the companies need to pay an increased rate of both audit and non-audit fees after SOX. The findings of this paper will be the use of financial reporting regulatory authorities such as Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). It will also guide the researchers for future investigations. This study will be the one of the first to provide evidence on the changes in the relationship between audit and non-audit fees because of the Section 201 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Keywords: Audit fees, Non-audit fees, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md, Impact of Section 201 of SOX on the Relationship between Audit and Non-Audit Fees (December 15, 2014). RAHMAN, MJ (2015) Impact of Section 201 of SOX on the Relationship Between Audit and Non-Audit fees. Corporate Ownership and Control/Volume 12, Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538585 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Abdel Khalik , A R
The jointers of audit fees and demand for mas: A self selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 Posted: 1990
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 Posted: 1984
Crossref
R Barefield , J Gaver , &amp; T O&apos;keefe
Additional Evidence on the Economics of Attest: Extending Results From the Audit Market to the Market for Compilations and Reviews
A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 12 Posted: 1993
L Barkess , R Simnett
Accounting and Business Research
The Provision of Other Services by Auditors: Independence and Pricing Issues , volume 24 Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Jahidur Md Rahman , Rob Kim Marjerison
Sustaining Competitive Advantage Through Good Governance and Fiscal Controls: Risk Determinants in Internal Controls
Corporate Ownership & Control, 2020 · 13 Pages · Posted: 6 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 327
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
605,632
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies