Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implication of Auditor Operational Efficiency for Auditor Competition

2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

49 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2014

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ling Chu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

This paper uses a model extended from DeAngelo (1981) to examine audit market and audit pricing. When auditors have differential operational efficiencies, the audit market becomes delicate. On one hand, auditees would like to reduce audit fees by to purchasing audit services from the most efficient auditors. On the other hand, the competition in the market can be significantly reduced when there are few auditors in a market. The auditees can end up paying the highest fees despite the auditors are very efficient. This paper concludes that auditees can minimize auditing fees by maintaining an optimal number of auditors in the market, including some less efficient auditors. The large auditees would have to pay more for they have fewer choices in a market than small auditees. In order to maintain reasonable competition among auditors in a market, auditees pay the more efficient auditors higher fees.

Keywords: operational efficiciecy, competition, audit fees

JEL Classification: m41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Ping and Chu, Ling, The Implication of Auditor Operational Efficiency for Auditor Competition (December 15, 2014). 2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S Bandyopadhyay , J Kao
Market structure and audit fees: a local analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 529 - 561 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J R Casterella , J R Francis , B L Lewis , P L Walker
Auditor industry specialization, client bargaining power, and audit pricing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 140 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Audit market concentration and auditor tolerance for earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 1171 - 1203 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J P Boone , K K Raman
Do the Big 4 and the Second-Tier firms provide audits of similar quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , p. 230 - 52 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,005
RANK
580,215
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies