Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complex Fair Value Measurements and Material Weaknesses: It's Not All Bad News

38 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2014

Nathan H. Cannon

Texas State University

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 26, 2014

Abstract

U.S. and international regulators and standard setters have criticized companies and audit firms for failing to establish and audit internal controls for complex fair value measurements (FVMs). In this study, we examine the association between FVMs and the likelihood of reporting a material control weakness, as well as settings in which this association may be reduced. We find that companies with FVM portfolios concentrated in Level 2 and Level 3 FVMs are more likely to report material weaknesses, confirming regulators’ concerns that the FVMs are associated with lower financial reporting quality. However, we do not find this association for large companies, clients of audit firm industry experts, or clients of audit firms with FVM-specific expertise. These results suggest that despite the inherent complexity of Level 2 and Level 3 FVMs, company- and auditor-specific characteristics can impact companies’ abilities to create an effective internal control structure around some FVMs.

Keywords: Auditing, expertise, internal controls, fair value measurement, complexity

Suggested Citation:

Cannon, Nathan Hatch and Christensen, Brant E. and Omer, Thomas C. and Wood, David A., Complex Fair Value Measurements and Material Weaknesses: It's Not All Bad News (December 26, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Bedard
Expertise in auditing: Myth or reality. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J C Bedard , L Graham
Detection and severity classifications of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 internal control deficiencies
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 825 - 855 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Botosan , R Carrizosa , A Huffman
Factors influencing banks' use of level 3 valuation inputs during the financial crisis. Working paper Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,761
RANK
197,037
7 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies