Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Undetected Unintentional Errors in Audited Financial Statements

2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

66 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2014 Last revised: 26 May 2015

B. Louise Hayes

University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the associations between financial restatements and characteristics of the parties responsible for preventing and detecting unintentional errors, i.e., boards (through their audit committees), management (through chief financial officers (CFOs)), and auditors. To conduct this investigation, I developed a theoretical model of restatement determinants that is more complete than models used in previous archival research as it includes characteristics of all three parties and the moderating effects of chief financial officers’ financial expertise and influence on the disruptive effects of organizational change. I use a proxy for restatements that identifies restatements that correct unintentional error based on the language in restatement disclosures. Results show that of the three parties responsible for financial reporting quality, the CFO plays the major role with respect to unintentional error: The likelihood of restatement to correct unintentional error is decreasing in CFO financial expertise, but only when companies are undergoing organizational change. Results also show that CFOs’ (audit committees’) financial expertise is more strongly associated with restatements that correct unintentional error (intentional misstatement) than intentional misstatement (unintentional error). However, I find no evidence of significant associations between auditor quality and either restatements that correct unintentional error or intentional misstatement.

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, B. Louise, Determinants of Undetected Unintentional Errors in Audited Financial Statements (December 15, 2014). 2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor Selection and Audit Committee Characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , J Goldie , B Huyett
Today's CFO: Which profile best suits your company? McKinsey & Company. Accessed online February Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,563
RANK
472,944
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies