Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Social Ties between Individual Auditors and Client CEOs/CFOs Matter to Audit Quality?

Posted: 30 Dec 2014

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Gaoliang Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Date Written: January 30, 2014

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to investigate whether and how the social ties between individual auditors and client CEOs/CFOs affect audit quality using a large sample of publicly traded firms in China. We define social ties between individual auditors and client CEOs/CFOs as “working or educational alumni.” We find that clients with social ties are significantly and positively associated with abnormal accruals and the presence of reporting small profits, and are more likely to receive clean audit opinions compared to clients without social ties. Moreover, we find that the working-tie effect on audit quality is stronger than the school-tie effect. In addition, we find that the social-tie effect on audit quality can be mitigated by several personal characteristics of individual auditors, such as partner, female, accounting major, auditing experience, etc. Furthermore, we find that socially connected clients are more likely to downward restate their audited earnings in subsequent years. Overall, our study sheds new light on the impact of social ties between individual auditors and client executives on audit quality.

Suggested Citation:

Qi, Baolei and Yang, Rong and Tian, Gaoliang, Do Social Ties between Individual Auditors and Client CEOs/CFOs Matter to Audit Quality? (January 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2543858
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies