Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The effects of Audit Firm Rotations and Retentions: An event study in Chile

61 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2015 Last revised: 29 Jul 2016

Antonio Aninat

Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile

Álvaro E. Bustos

Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile

Julio Riutort

Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez

Date Written: July 29, 2016

Abstract

We study differences in markets reactions towards securities issued by firms that announce an external auditor’s rotation instead of an external auditor’s retention. We carry out an event study of publicly traded Chilean companies (100 % of the non-financial component of the main Chilean Stock Indexes) that announced a rotation or retention from 2004 to 2019. During those years, from 2009 to 2012, two major corporate scandals significantly affected Chilean financial markets. We find that, during the period without scandals, the market reacted more positively when a company announced the retention instead of the rotation of its auditor, however, during the period with scandals, the market reacted more positively when a company announced the rotation instead of the retention of its auditor. We rule out possible bias in the informational content of the events.  Our results suggest that, during the period without (with) scandals, the start-up costs and know how losses of an auditor’s change dominated (were dominated by) the improvements in auditor’s independence associated with the change. To support our hypothesis, we perform several tests and point out differences between factual and perceived effects. We discuss implications for firms and regulators.

Keywords: event study, Audit firm rotation, Audit firm retention, Chile, corporate scandal, factual and perceived effects, market reaction

JEL Classification: M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Aninat, Antonio and Bustos, Álvaro E. and Riutort, Julio,

The effects of Audit Firm Rotations and Retentions: An event study in Chile

(July 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2548040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B Arruñada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory rotation of company auditors: A critical examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E R Barbadillo , N G Aguilar , N Carrera
Evidencia empírica sobre el efecto de la duración del contrato en la calidad de la auditoría: análisis de las medidas de retención y rotación obligatoria de auditores
Investigaciones económicas , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 316 Posted: 2006
J Barton
Who Cares about Auditor Reputation?*. Contemporary accounting research , volume 22 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,142
RANK
212,384
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies