Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Concession-Timing Strategies in Auditor-Client Negotiations: It Matters Who is Using Them

33 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2015

Yan Sun

Harbin Institute of Technology - School of Management

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Jixun Zhang

Nankai University-Business School

Date Written: June 22, 2014

Abstract

In this study, we examine how norms about the use of negotiation strategies by different parties in an auditor-client negotiation influence the relative efficacies of these negotiation strategies. We conduct an experiment with experienced auditors/financial managers as participants, who enter into a negotiation on an income-decreasing audit adjustment with a hypothetical client/auditor who uses a strategy where the same concessions are given either at the start, gradually, or the end of the negotiation. We find that the concession-end strategy is more effective than the concession-start strategy when used by auditors; however, the reverse is true when these same strategies are used by financial managers. The concession-gradual strategy leads to superior outcomes when used by either auditors or clients. We also provide evidence that auditors’ and financial managers’ perceptions of the norms relating to the use of these strategies correspond to what we propose in our theory.

Keywords: negotiation strategies, auditors, financial managers, norms

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Yan and Tan, Hun-Tong and Zhang, Jixun, Effect of Concession-Timing Strategies in Auditor-Client Negotiations: It Matters Who is Using Them (June 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2548836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
H Aarts , A Dijksterhuis
The silence of the library: Environment, situational norm, and social behavior
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 28 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C W Bame-Aldred , T Kida
A comparison of auditor and client initial negotiation positions and tactics. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 6 , p. 497 - 511 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Birenbaum , E Sagarin
Norms and Human Behavior Posted: 1976
M Brauer , P Chekroun
The relationship between perceived violation of social norms and social control: Situational factors influencing the reaction to deviance
Journal of Applied Social Psychology , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 1519 - 1539 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,559
RANK
330,157
6 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies