Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Board Financial Monitoring Strength and Donor Pressure in Nonprofit Auditors’ Assessment of Changes in Program Expense Allocations

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

Posted: 19 Jan 2015 Last revised: 15 Jun 2023

John Lauck

Louisiana Tech University - School of Accounting & Information Systems

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: June 14, 2023

Abstract

Nonprofits face inherent risks from both donor pressure to increase program spending and a high
propensity for reporting errors. Simultaneously, in contrast to for-profit settings, limitations of nonprofit governance can raise auditors’ concerns about a board’s effectiveness as a control mechanism. We experimentally examine how a nonprofit board’s stronger and weaker monitoring strength influences auditors’ assessments of a client’s program expense allocations under conditions of higher and lower donor pressure to increase program spending. Auditors assess management’s expense allocations as more appropriate, and document fewer risk factors, only when board financial monitoring is strong and donor pressure is lower. Further, auditors rely on strong boards to reduce errors, but not intentional misstatements related to management’s allocation of functional expenses. These findings suggest that, in contrast to how auditors use for-profit governance, auditors may question the ability of even strong nonprofit boards to mitigate instances of intentional functional expense allocation misreporting.

Keywords: nonprofit audit; nonprofit inherent risks; donor pressure; nonprofit governance

Suggested Citation:

Lauck, John and Bhattacharjee, Sudip, The Role of Board Financial Monitoring Strength and Donor Pressure in Nonprofit Auditors’ Assessment of Changes in Program Expense Allocations (June 14, 2023). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548226
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies