Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Enforcement Actions on Engagement Auditors Improve Audit Quality?

Accounting and Business Research

50 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2015 Last revised: 11 Aug 2020

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Liuchuang Li

Independent

Ashok Robin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 13, 2015

Abstract

A unique feature of Chinese auditing and one under consideration for adoption in the U.S. is regulatory oversight of individual auditors. This paper analyzes enforcement actions by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) against engagement auditors and investigates whether audit quality improves for sanctioned auditors. Our results indicate lower discretionary accruals for client firms following sanctions. Complementing this, and indicative of greater skepticism and independence by sanctioned auditors, we find that the probability of issuing a modified audit opinion increases following sanctions. We conjecture that audit quality increases because sanctions increases the likelihood of job loss and also damages reputations; consistent with this, we find evidence of job loss among some of the sanctioned auditors and of stock market losses for clients audited by sanctioned auditors. These adverse consequences appear to encourage sanctioned auditors to “clean up their act.” Finally, we examine one channel through which sanctions improve audit quality: we find evidence of a longer lag between fiscal year end and the date of the audit report, a metric interpreted in the literature as a measure of auditor effort. Thus, it appears that sanctions, by raising the specter of job and/or reputation loss, compel sanctioned auditors to increase effort in such a way that audit quality rises. Overall, our results indicate that governmental sanctions improve audit quality. This suggests that auditor incentives stemming from oversight mechanisms play a critical role in determining audit quality.

Keywords: Governmental Sanctions; Accruals; Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Qi, Baolei and Li, Liuchuang and Robin, Ashok and Yang, Rong, Can Enforcement Actions on Engagement Auditors Improve Audit Quality? (January 13, 2015). Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2549041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2549041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Did the 2007 PCAOB disciplinary order against Deloitte impose actual costs on the firm or improve its audit quality?
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 405 - 441 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H K Chan , D Wu
Aggregate quasi rents and auditor independence: Evidence from audit firm mergers in China
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2011
S Chen , S Y J Sun , D Wu
Client importance, institutional improvements, and audit quality in China: An office and individual auditor level analysis
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 158 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,764
RANK
154,771
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies