Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Audit Firm Emphasis on Client Relationship Quality Influence Auditors’ Inferences about and Responses to Potential Persuasion in Client Communications?

41 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2015 Last revised: 19 Aug 2020

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Date Written: August 4, 2020

Abstract

Many audit firms use client relationship management tools (e.g., client satisfaction surveys); however, overemphasizing relationship quality potentially makes auditors susceptible to client influence. Audit seniors, the main point of contact with clients, could be most vulnerable. In an experiment, we manipulate the presence of a potential client persuasion attempt in response to auditor inquiry (expressions of high confidence) and an audit firm’s emphasis on relationship quality (desire to achieve high client satisfaction ratings for the current year’s audit). We examine how these variables jointly influence the extent to which audit seniors infer persuasion from client explanations and, importantly, whether that inference is reflected in their actions. We find that auditors infer to an incrementally greater extent that client persuasion is present when they encounter high confidence when relationship quality is emphasized; however, they do not respond by collecting more relevant audit evidence under these conditions. Our findings suggest that auditors do not pursue audit evidence that could reduce their reliance on client-provided information and, thereby, limit client influence, even when they infer client persuasion to a greater extent.

Keywords: auditor-client relationship; persuasion; confidence; client satisfaction; engagement pressure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Hoang, Kris, How Does Audit Firm Emphasis on Client Relationship Quality Influence Auditors’ Inferences about and Responses to Potential Persuasion in Client Communications? (August 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2549726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2549726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Working paper Posted: 2020
S Aghazadeh , J Joe
Auditors' response to management confidence and client risk. Working paper Posted: 2020
U Anderson , K Kadous , L Koonce
The role of incentives to manage earnings and quantification in auditors' evaluations of management -provided information
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 27 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B K Behn , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , R H Hermanson
The determinants of audit client satisfaction among clients of Big 6 firms
Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 1997
Load more
7 Citations
Christopher Koch , Steven E. Salterio
The Effects of Auditor Affinity for Client and Perceived Client Pressure on Auditor Proposed Adjustments
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 5 , p. 117 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Christopher Koch , Steven E. Salterio
Effects of Client Pressure and Audit Firm Management Control Systems on Auditor Judgments
61 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2015 · Downloads: 789
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sanaz Aghazadeh , Owen Brown , Laura Guichard Latiolais , Kris Hoang
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 88 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard C. Hatfield , Kris Hoang , Michael Ricci , Edward Thomas
How Auditors' Client Service Affects Managers' Cooperation with Auditor Evidence Requests
53 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 1 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 381
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,098
RANK
167,682
7 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies