Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the Extant Clauses Limiting Auditor Liability on Audit Fees and Overall Reporting Quality

Journal of Empirical Legal Studies (Forthcoming)

46 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2015 Last revised: 27 Mar 2019

Henock Louis

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Thomas Pearson

University of Hawaii

Dahlia Robinson

University of South Florida

Michael Robinson

University of Tampa

Amy X. Sun

University of Houston

Date Written: August 10, 2018

Abstract

Regulators and shareholders generally oppose any restriction on clients’ rights to sue their auditors, believing that such restrictions would impair reporting quality. However, the evidence suggests that the opposition to limitation of liability agreements (LLAs) between clients and auditors is likely unwarranted. Specifically, the evidence indicates that LLAs are beneficial to clients by lowering their audit fees. More importantly, we find no evidence that they impair financial reporting quality in general. Hence, the extant contracts limiting clients’ rights to sue their auditors appear to benefit auditors and their clients without any apparent detriment to the quality of financial reporting.

Keywords: Auditor liability; liability limiting agreement; audit quality; reporting quality

JEL Classification: M42, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Louis, Henock and Pearson, Thomas and Robinson, Dahlia and Robinson, Michael and Sun, Amy X., The Effects of the Extant Clauses Limiting Auditor Liability on Audit Fees and Overall Reporting Quality (August 10, 2018). Journal of Empirical Legal Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2553562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2553562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury Posted: 2008-10
E Altman
Corporate financial distress: A complete guide to predicting, avoiding, and dealing with bankruptcy: A discriminant analysis Posted: 1983
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,988
RANK
31,470
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies