Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Economic Bonding on Audit Quality: Evidence from Audit Working Papers

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 2553080

Posted: 30 Jan 2015

Joost van Buuren

Nyenrode Business University

Barbara Majoor

Independent

Leen Paape

Nyenrode Business University

Arnold Wright

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: January 21, 2015

Abstract

In this study we examine the effect of auditor economic bonding (financial dependency on a client) on audit quality. We consider financial dependency as either abnormally high fees in relation to expected hours or vice versa. We consider audits to have credence goods properties where the client has limited ways to assess audit quality that is (likely to be) delivered. This setting provides opportunities for different auditor business strategies. We base our results on a unique, proprietary dataset of audit fees, audit hours, materiality, risk assessments, error detection and auditor reporting decisions taken from the working papers of 681 audit engagements with 2,209 engagement-year observations over the period 2006 to 2011. First, we predict and find that high effort audit engagements (i.e., abnormal high audit hours) are associated with a higher probability of detecting audit differences than low effort audit engagements. Simultaneously, we predict and find that financial dependency on a client lowers the audit quality achieved by high effort as reflected by waiving proposed audit differences. Moreover, our results suggest that auditors facing high independence threats are more highly associated with overstated earnings than when independence threats are low. Consequently, the findings suggest that the negative effects of financial dependency, i.e. economic bonding threats, are a result of the auditors’ business relationship with a given client and how the auditor responds to competitive markets.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Auditor Business Strategy, Audit Partner, Audit Working Papers

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

van Buuren, Joost and Majoor, Barbara and Paape, Leen and Wright, Arnold, The Impact of Economic Bonding on Audit Quality: Evidence from Audit Working Papers (January 21, 2015). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 2553080, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2553080
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies