Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Evaluation of Others’ Credibility: A Review of Experimental Studies on Determinants and Consequences

Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 35, October 2015

35 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2015 Last revised: 31 Jan 2016

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

I synthesize the extant behavioral literature examining auditor evaluation of others’ credibility published in six top accounting journals over the last three-and-a-half decades. I adapt the original definition of credibility by Hovland, Janis, and Kelley (1953): the extent of perceiving someone as competent and trustworthy. Audit guidance requires auditors to consider credibility of management, internal auditors, and staff, yet the research literature on auditor evaluation of others’ credibility is fragmented and scarce, limiting our understanding of determinants and consequences of auditor evaluations. I develop a framework for analysis of research on auditor evaluation of others’ credibility and review extant literature by types of examined effects (determinants of credibility vs. consequences of credibility) and by examined credibility components (competence, trustworthiness, or both). Throughout the literature review I suggest areas for future research.

Keywords: Determinants of Credibility, Consequences of Credibility, Evaluation of Competence, Evaluation of Trustworthiness

Suggested Citation:

Maksymov, Eldar M., Auditor Evaluation of Others’ Credibility: A Review of Experimental Studies on Determinants and Consequences (October 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 35, October 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2554638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2554638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , D Snowball , J H Wragge
The Effects of Certain Internal Audit Variables on the Planning of External Audit Programs
The Accounting Review , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 227 Posted: 1983
U L Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The Effects of Source-Competence Information and Its Timing on Auditors' Performance of Analytical Procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 1994
U Anderson , G Marchant
The Auditors Assessment of the Competence and Integrity of Auditee Personnel
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 8 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 1989
E M Bamber
Expert Judgment in the Audit Team: A Source Reliability Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 396 - 412 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,343
RANK
315,702
6 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies