Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Audit Fees Inhibit Accounting Misstatements? Moderating Effects of Auditor Reputation from Chinese Experience

24 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2015

Bin Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Economics and Finance

Chen Ma

Northwest University

Date Written: January 27, 2015

Abstract

We examine the association between audit fees and accounting misstatements, and test the moderating effect of auditor reputation on this association in China, where auditors’ legal liability is essentially weak. We find that current-year audit fees are negatively and significantly associated with the likelihood of current-year financial statement being misstated. This result is consistent with prior work, indicating a negative relation between audit fees and future misstatements in a strong litigation environment such as in the United States. This finding indicates that higher audit fees can reflect audit effort, even in a setting where litigation plays essentially no role. Prior literature suggests that audit firms have reputational incentives; thus, we use auditor irregularities and audit firm rank as proxies for auditor reputation and find that the negative relationship between misstatements and audit fees weaken as auditor reputation decreases. Our results indicate that auditor reputation can negatively moderate the relationship between audit fees and misstatements and is more important in the absence of litigation.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bin and Ma, Chen, Can Audit Fees Inhibit Accounting Misstatements? Moderating Effects of Auditor Reputation from Chinese Experience (January 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2556671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2556671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D M Anderson
Taking Stock in China: Company Disclosure and Information in China's Stock Markets
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 88 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 2000
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The Joint Determination of Audit fee, Non-Audit fee, and Abnormal Accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O Bedford , K K Hwang
Guilt and Shame in Chinese Culture: A Cross-cultural Framework from the Perspective of Morality and Identity
Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 144 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ahsan Habib , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Julia Wu
Corporate Governance Determinants of Financial Restatements: A Meta-Analysis
The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 64 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 438
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,298
RANK
281,840
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies