Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Lenders’ Demand for Audit

Journal of Accounting and Economics (2017) 64(1): 78-97.

Posted: 30 Mar 2015 Last revised: 15 Mar 2021

Richard Baylis

Cardiff Business School

Pete Burnap

Cardiff University

Mark A. Clatworthy

University of Bristol Business School

Mahmoud Gad

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Christopher K. M. Pong

Heriot-Watt University - School of Management and Languages

Date Written: April 16, 2017

Abstract

We study clauses in private lending agreements requiring auditors to assure lenders of borrowers’ compliance with financial covenants. Auditors are required under general purpose financial reporting to review covenant compliance. However, by informing lenders directly that they have no knowledge of default, auditors may increase their litigation risk. We find that auditor covenant compliance assurance clauses are significantly associated with more complex contractual adjustments to net income, the extent of reliance on accounting information in the contract, intangibility of borrowers’ assets, the number of lenders and loan maturity. We provide novel evidence of the audit market enhancing efficient contracting.

Keywords: Auditing; financial reporting; debt contracts

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Baylis, Richard and Burnap, Pete and Clatworthy, Mark A. and Gad, Mahmoud and Pong, Christopher K.M., Private Lenders’ Demand for Audit (April 16, 2017). Journal of Accounting and Economics (2017) 64(1): 78-97., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2557618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2557618
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,700
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies