Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Overconfidence and Audit Fees

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2015 Last revised: 17 Apr 2015

Scott Duellman

Saint Louis University - Department of Accounting

Helen Hurwitz

Saint Louis University

Yan Sun

Saint Louis University

Date Written: January 28, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the association between managerial overconfidence and audit fees, as well as the effect of a strong audit committee on this relation. Overconfident managers tend to overestimate their ability and the future payouts of projects but underestimate the likelihood and impact of adverse events. Auditors may therefore charge a fee premium to compensate for the additional audit effort due to the increased audit risk. Conversely, overconfident managers may demand less audit services due to either hubris in their companies’ financial reporting or a desire to reduce auditor scrutiny over aggressive accounting. A strong audit committee can alleviate the audit risks associated with managerial overconfidence or prevent overconfident managers from reducing audit services thus mitigating the relation between audit fees and managerial overconfidence. We find robust evidence of a negative relation between managerial overconfidence and audit fees for companies lacking a strong audit committee. However, in the presence of a strong audit committee the negative relation is mitigated. In additional analysis, we also find that companies with overconfident managers have a lower likelihood of using a city-industry specialist auditor.

Keywords: Overconfidence, Audit Fees, Specialist Auditor, Audit Committee

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Duellman, Scott and Hurwitz, Helen and Sun, Yan, Managerial Overconfidence and Audit Fees (January 28, 2015). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2557494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2557494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: an empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,505
RANK
68,972
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies