Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of a Self-Interest Threat to Auditor Independence and Emotion on Auditors’ Inventory Valuation Judgments

Posted: 31 Jan 2015

Janne Chung

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business

Date Written: January 29, 2015

Abstract

Using an experiment with 96 experienced practicing auditors as participants, this paper investigates the effects of a self-interest threat to auditor independence and of emotion on auditors’ inventory valuation judgments. We predict that the presence of a self-interest threat in a judgment context (in the form of a job offer from the client) will lead participants to recommend a less conservative value (higher value) for the client’s ending inventory in relation to the absence of a self-interest threat (where there is no job offer). We also hypothesize that a more positive emotion will lead participants to recommend a less conservative inventory value compared to a more negative emotion. Additionally, participants in the positive-emotion treatment and with a self-interest threat present will recommend an inventory value that is less conservative (higher value) relative to individuals in all other conditions; and participants in the negative-emotion and self-interest threat not present condition will recommend an inventory value that is more conservative (lower value) relative to individuals in all other conditions. The results confirm our expectations. Implications for practice and future research are also discussed.

Keywords: Self-interest threat; emotions; audit judgments; auditor independence; Pleasure, Arousal, and Dominance (PAD) scale

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Janne and Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Monroe, Gary S., The Influence of a Self-Interest Threat to Auditor Independence and Emotion on Auditors’ Inventory Valuation Judgments (January 29, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2557630
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,709
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies