Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Downward Auditor Changes on Information Risk for Non-Accelerated Filers

49 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2015

Renee E. Weiss

Queens College

Lawrence P. Kalbers

Loyola Marymount University

Date Written: January 31, 2015

Abstract

In this study, we examine the impact of changes in auditor quality on financial reporting information risk, particularly for smaller public companies (non-accelerated filers). Non-accelerated filers represent a large share of public reporting companies (over 60% in 2009), and given opportunity to grow, can create new jobs, providing incentives for recent efforts to exempt or scale back costly regulations. The regulatory easing has created lower disclosure and audit requirements for smaller public companies (non-accelerated filers) compared to larger public companies (accelerated filers). The demise of Arthur Andersen and increased attestation requirements for larger public companies has caused a dramatic decrease in Big 4 audits of smaller public companies. A downward auditor change (from a Big 4 to lower tier auditor) provides the setting to examine the extent to which auditor quality (proxied by auditor size) attenuates or mitigates non-accelerated filer information risk, as measured by stock return synchronicity. Contrary to our expectations, we find that non-accelerated filers have lower information risk in the period following downward auditor changes from Big 4 auditors compared to a matched sample of non-accelerated filers that continue to retain Big 4 auditors. This result also applies when the comparison group is a sample of accelerated filers that change from Big 4 auditors. The results are particularly salient for downward changes to Tier 2 auditors. Our study adds to the literature on audit quality and should be of interest to investors, researchers, and regulators.

Keywords: Auditor changes, auditor quality, information risk, non-accelerated filers

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Weiss, Renee E. and Kalbers, Lawrence P., The Impact of Downward Auditor Changes on Information Risk for Non-Accelerated Filers (January 31, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2558590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2558590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
B R Antle , Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
N Bhattacharya , F Ecker , P M Olsson , K Schipper
Direct and mediated associations among earnings quality, information asymmetry, and the cost of equity
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 482 Posted: 2012
Crossref
N Bhattacharya , H Desai , K Venkataraman
Does earnings quality affect information asymmetry? Evidence from trading costs
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 482 - 516 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,910
RANK
425,064
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies