Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Financial Reporting Quality of Family Firms: The Auditors’ Perspective

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/01

48 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2015

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Charles Tang

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 5, 2014

Abstract

Prior studies provide conflicting evidence on the reporting/disclosure quality of family firms. We provide unique insights by analyzing the pricing of audit engagements. Because financial reporting quality affects audit risk, which determines how auditors price engagements, we analyze audit fees to extract auditor’s professional assessment of family firms’ reporting quality. Relative to non-family firms, we find that audit fees are significantly lower for family firms, which suggests that auditors view family firms as having superior financial reporting quality (i.e. audit risk is low). Because a fee discount might also be attributable to lower litigation risk, we analyze litigation data and find no reliable difference in auditor lawsuits between family and non-family firms. Finally, we provide corroborating evidence on the financial reporting quality of family firms based on three audit risk tests. First, using a financial reporting metric for audit risk, we show that audit risk is lower for family firms. Second, we show that the fee discount is lower for family firms with high audit risk. Third, using audit report lag as a proxy for audit effort, we show that family firm auditors work less to provide the desired level of assurance. Our findings provide compelling evidence in favor of the explanation that auditors charge less from family firms because of superior reporting quality, which lowers audit risk and, therefore, the need for greater audit investments.

Keywords: family firms, audit risk, financial reporting quality, audit fees, audit report lag

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Tang, Charles Ya B., Assessing Financial Reporting Quality of Family Firms: The Auditors’ Perspective (September 5, 2014). Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2560973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2560973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J H Choi , J B Kim , X Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009-09
Crossref
A Craswell , J Francis , S Taylor
Auditor brand name reputations, and industry specializations
Journal of Accounting and Economic , volume 20 , p. 297 - 322 Posted: 1995
Crossref
L R Davis , D N Ricchiute , G Trompeter
Audit effort, audit fees, and the provision of nonaudit services to audit clients
Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 135 - 150 Posted: 1993
P Dechow , G Weili , C Schrand
Understanding earnings quality: A review of the proxies, their determinants, and their consequences
Journal of Accounting and Economic , volume 50 , p. 344 - 401 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,929
RANK
92,044
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies