Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How has the Change in the Way Auditors Determine the Audit Report Date Changed the Meaning of the Audit Report Date? Implications for Academic Research

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

65 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2015 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

James C. Hansen

Weber State University Goddard School of Business and Economics

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: May 2021

Abstract

Archival research in accounting often relies on the audit report date to capture the constructs of audit efficiency, audit timeliness, audit effort, or audit completion. Auditors’ view of what constitutes sufficient appropriate evidence to support the audit opinion, and consequently the date of the audit report, previously coincided with the substantial completion of audit fieldwork, which would be days or weeks before a 10-K filing. However, this view has shifted to coincide with the timing of the public issuance of clients’ financial statements (i.e., the 10-K filing date) following several regulatory actions, audit practice changes, and professional standard setting changes occurring since the turn of the century. In this study, we present evidence of this shift in auditor perspective and discuss implications for academic research and standard setting.

Keywords: audit report date; audit report delay, audit report lag; audit fieldwork completion

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Hansen, James C. and Seidel, Timothy A., How has the Change in the Way Auditors Determine the Audit Report Date Changed the Meaning of the Audit Report Date? Implications for Academic Research (May 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2561713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2561713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J L Abernathy , L Beyer , A Masli , C Stefaniak
The association between characteristics of audit committee accounting experts, audit committee chairs, and financial reporting timeliness
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2014
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial Statement Footnote Readability and Corporate Audit Outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
A A Arens , R J Elder , M Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,100
RANK
25,186
8 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies