Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections, Audit Opinions and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Corruption Cases

40 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2015

Ku He

University of Wollongong - Faculty of Commerce

Xiaofei Pan

University of Wollongong

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: February 15, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the joint impact of corporate political connections and ownership structures on the auditor reporting behaviours and firms’ auditor choice patterns in the Chinese market. We construct a natural experiment that alleviates endogeneity concern by employing 56 corruption cases involving high-level government bureaucrats from 2004 to 2012, and a set of publicly traded companies whose managers or directors directly involve in the bribing activities or were connected with the corrupt bureaucrats through family or previous job aﬃliations. Our empirical findings suggest that once the political connections are broken because of the corruption events, politically connected non-SOE firms are more likely to receive unfavourable audit opinions and have less chance to hire local small auditors in subsequent years, compared with the non-connected firms. However, relative to those without political ties, SOEs connected to the corrupt bureaucrats would have a higher possibility to get favourable opinions at the occurrences of corruption cases, and are more likely to choose local small auditors in the following years. Moreover, further study indicates that the market reactions to the corruption events are significantly negative for non-SOE firms, but positive for SOEs. In summary, our study suggest that corporate political connections have a substantial effect in deciding the auditor reporting behaviours, auditor choice patterns and firm value. More important, the effect of political connections is subject to firms’ ownership structures.

Keywords: Auditor reporting behaviours; Auditor choice patterns; Political connections; Ownership structure

JEL Classification: F32; M40

Suggested Citation:

He, Ku and Pan, Xiaofei and Tian, Gary Gang, Political Connections, Audit Opinions and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Corruption Cases (February 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2565243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2565243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
RANK
223,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies