Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Incentives and the Resolution of Detected Misstatements

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2015

Marsha B. Keune

University of Dayton

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: February 19, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the role of audit committee economic incentives in judgments involving the resolution of detected misstatements. The results reveal a positive association between audit committee short-term stock option compensation and the likelihood that managers are allowed to waive income decreasing misstatements that, if corrected, would have caused the company to miss its analyst forecast. Complementary results reveal a positive association between the audit committee long-term stock option compensation and the likelihood that managers are allowed to waive income-increasing misstatements when the company reports just missing, meeting, or beating its analyst forecast. These findings illustrate agency conflicts that can arise when compensating audit committees with options. We obtain these results while controlling for CEO option compensation and audit committee characteristics, along with indicators of corporate governance, auditor incentives, and company characteristics.

Keywords: Audit Committees, Book-or-Waive Decisions, Error Correction, Materiality

Suggested Citation:

Keune, Marsha B. and Zehms, Karla M., Audit Committee Incentives and the Resolution of Detected Misstatements (February 19, 2015). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
Audit Committee Communications. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 89 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
RANK
227,633
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies