Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Client Pressure and Audit Firm Management Control Systems on Auditor Judgments

61 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2015

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 27, 2015

Abstract

We examine the effects of pressures from client management and the audit firm’s own management control systems (MCS) on auditors’ willingness to accept an aggressive accounting that is preferred by client management. We find that auditors perceiving more pressure from client management to accept the client’s aggressive accounting react by increasing the size of the proposed adjustment needed to bring the client’s accounting into conformity with GAAP. However, we find that when client management promotes the jointness of interests they share with the auditor or the audit firm’s MCS focuses the auditor more on client service quality the auditor experiences increased affinity for the client and proposes lower adjustments in response to the same accounting facts. Furthermore, we find that the auditor’s proposed adjustment to client accounting leads to intended use of negotiation tactics that are consistent with the relative size of the proposed adjustment: larger proposed adjustments result in relatively greater auditor intentions to use contending tactics whereas smaller adjustments lead to increased intentions to use compromising tactics. Two implications emerge from our research. First, that client management, if subtle with its use of pressure, can nudge auditors towards accepting the aggressive accounting management wants. Second, the audit firm’s own MCS can facilitate auditor identification with client needs leading to a lesser willingness by auditors to challenge aggressive client management accounting.

Keywords: Client pressure, customer relationship management, client service quality, management control systems, motivated reasoning, negotiation, accounting policy acceptance

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Koch, Christopher and Salterio, Steven E., Effects of Client Pressure and Audit Firm Management Control Systems on Auditor Judgments (February 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2572486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2572486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
Sanaz Aghazadeh , Kris Hoang
How Does Audit Firm Emphasis on Client Relationship Quality Influence Auditors’ Inferences about and Responses to Potential Persuasion in Client Communications?
Pages: 41 Posted: 16 Jan 2015 Last revised: 19 Aug 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Z U Ahmed , J F Hopson , U Zafar , F James
A Strategic Plan for Marketing Accounting Services
The CPA Journal , volume 60 , issue 10 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1990
S K Asare , A M Cianci , G T Tsakumis
The Impact of Competing Goals, Experience, and Litigation Consciousness on Auditors
Judgments. International Journal of Auditing , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 223 - 236 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' Identification with Their Clients and Its Effect on
Auditors' Objectivity. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
789
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,682
RANK
72,403
4 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies