Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Dimensions of Lead Auditor Expertise Matter for Audit Quality and Audit Fees?

Posted: 7 Mar 2015

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: March 6, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of lead auditors’ technical and managerial knowledge on audit quality and audit fees. The German institutional environment enables us to track auditors over their careers and measure their various personal attributes. We find that lead auditors’ technical knowledge is more important for audit quality than their managerial knowledge; however, their managerial knowledge is a more influential driver of audit fees than their technical knowledge. The results of various identification strategies including firm-fixed effects models, propensity-score matching, and instrumental variables approaches suggest that the observed relations are treatment rather than selection effects. The findings enhance our understanding of the role and nature of expertise in auditing and demonstrate the value of lead auditor identification as currently discussed by the PCAOB and the IAASB.

Keywords: technical knowledge; managerial knowledge; audit quality; audit fees

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ernstberger, Jürgen and Koch, Christopher and Tan, Hun-Tong, What Dimensions of Lead Auditor Expertise Matter for Audit Quality and Audit Fees? (March 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2574639
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,056
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies