Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Frontiers of Auditing Research

Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2015

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 4, 2015

Abstract

In this paper I examine issues at the frontiers of auditing research. After the global financial crisis and the earlier round of reforms, there are many opportunities for research, some driven by current proposals for reforms and some by fundamental research issues. Research can contribute to the development of policy in response to current issues. Research can also be valuable in exploring issues raised in past research. The introduction of independent regulation, increasing levels of globalisation and increased attention to research by regulatory bodies have drawn attention to some research issues, especially auditors providing non-audit services; rotation of audit firms; joint audits; and ways to provide increased competition. In addition, there are a number of areas in which there seems to be an obvious need for auditing research, but surprisingly little research is being done. These topics include the impact of higher-quality auditing in developing economies, and assurance for other entities such as charities and small companies. As more attention is now being given to auditing research, there are opportunities in established areas of research as well.

Keywords: Auditing, Audit research, Audit expectation gap, Auditing standards, Auditing research opportunities

JEL Classification: J44, L84, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David, The Frontiers of Auditing Research (March 4, 2015). Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,013
RANK
188,584
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies