Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ and Officers’ Legal Liability Insurance, Audit Pricing, and Litigation Risk

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2015

Hyeesoo Hyun Chung

California State University, Long Beach; Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Global Management and Leadership

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Jinyoung P. Wynn

Louisiana Tech University - School of Professional Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 10, 2014

Abstract

Directors’ and officers’ (D&O) legal liability insurance is commonly provided to corporate executives and directors. Prior literature suggests managers are more willing to engage in opportunistic behaviors when their personal assets are more protected from litigation risk. Therefore, information about D&O policy details is potentially useful in assessing potential managerial opportunism. However, many countries, including the U.S., do not require firms to disclose this information. We provide evidence on whether mandatory D&O disclosures are likely to provide information about managerial opportunism that is incremental to that provided by other sources of information using a sample of Canadian firms, who are required to make D&O disclosures. We examine the association between excess D&O coverage limits and audit fees since auditors have extensive private information about the likelihood of managerial opportunism and strong incentives to incorporate this information into their audit fees. We find a positive association between excess D&O coverage limits and audit fees after controlling for numerous other audit fee determinants, including other proxies for managerial opportunism such as discretionary accruals and corporate governance variables. Additional analyses suggest auditors are more sensitive to potential managerial opportunism when managers are more likely to act on their opportunistic incentives. We also find a positive association between excess D&O coverage limits and the likelihood of future shareholder litigation. Our findings suggest that D&O insurance disclosures convey incremental information to shareholders and other capital market participants. As such, they suggest a beneficial role for mandatory D&O disclosures.

Keywords: Directors’ & officers’ insurance, audit fees, litigation risk, mandatory disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Hyeesoo Hyun and Hillegeist, Stephen A. and Wynn, Jinyoung Park, Directors’ and Officers’ Legal Liability Insurance, Audit Pricing, and Litigation Risk (November 10, 2014). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2577074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Abbott , W Parker , G Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Audit.: J. Practice Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Adams , C Lin , H Zou
Chief Executive Officer incentives, monitoring, and corporate risk management: Evidence from insurance use
J. Risk Insur , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 551 - 582 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Narjess Boubakri , Nabil Ghalleb , M. Martin Boyer
Managerial Opportunism in Accounting Choice: Evidence from Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance Purchases
Pages: 50 Posted: 20 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Boyer
Directors' and Officers' Insurance in Canada
Corp. Ownersh. Control , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 141 - 145 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,303
RANK
98,916
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies