Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US-listed Foreign Companies’ Choice of a US-based vs. Home Country-based Big N Principal Auditor and the Effect on Audit Fees and Earnings Quality

Accounting Horizons (September 2015), 29(3): 631-666

Posted: 15 Mar 2015 Last revised: 24 Sep 2016

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Hongkang Xu

University of Texas at San Antonio - College of Business

Date Written: March 13, 2015

Abstract

We examine why US-listed foreign companies choose to have a US-based (rather than home country-based) Big N firm as their principal auditor for SEC reporting purposes and the effects of that choice for audit fees and earnings quality. We find that the likelihood of the Big N principal auditor being US-based is decreasing in client size and the level of investor protection in the home country, and increasing in the proportion of income earned outside the home country. We also find compelling evidence that US-based Big N auditors are associated with higher quality earnings (albeit for a higher fee), despite two factors – the greater distance between the US-based (vis-à-vis home country-based) Big N auditor and the client, and the likelihood that much of the audit work is done outside the US – which potentially could lower the earnings quality of the US-listed foreign client when the Big N principal auditor is US-based. Overall, our study suggests that the higher fees associated with a US-based Big N principal auditor is not just price protection; rather, US-based Big N principal auditors are also improving the financial reporting environment by reporting higher quality audited earnings for their US-listed foreign clients.

Keywords: US-listed foreign companies, Big N auditor, PCAOB, outsourcing, audit fees, quality of audited earnings

JEL Classification: L11, L15, M42

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Raman, K. K. and Xu, Hongkang, US-listed Foreign Companies’ Choice of a US-based vs. Home Country-based Big N Principal Auditor and the Effect on Audit Fees and Earnings Quality (March 13, 2015). Accounting Horizons (September 2015), 29(3): 631-666, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2578164
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies