Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Financial Reporting Quality of Family Firms: The Auditors’ Perspective

Journal of Accounting and Economics, 2015 Forthcoming

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/04

47 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2015

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Charles Tang

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 16, 2015

Abstract

We analyze audit fees and audit risk to extract auditor’s assessment of family firms’ financial reporting quality. Relative to non-family firms, we find that auditors charge significantly less from family firms and the fee difference shrinks in magnitude when family firms have high audit risk. Using constructs for audit risk and audit effort, we show that family firms have lower audit risk and that their auditors work less to provide assurance. Our findings suggest that superior reporting quality lowers audit risk and the need for greater audit investments, which is why auditors charge less from family firms.

Keywords: family firms, financial reporting quality, audit fees, audit risk

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Tang, Charles Ya B., Assessing Financial Reporting Quality of Family Firms: The Auditors’ Perspective (March 16, 2015). Journal of Accounting and Economics, 2015 Forthcoming, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2579141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
J H Choi , J B Kim , X Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009-09
Crossref
A Craswell , J Francis , S Taylor
Auditor brand name reputations, and industry specializations
Journal of Accounting and Economic , volume 20 , p. 297 - 322 Posted: 1995
Crossref
L R Davis , D N Ricchiute , G Trompeter
Audit effort, audit fees, and the provision of nonaudit services to audit clients
Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 135 - 150 Posted: 1993
P Dechow , G Weili , C Schrand
Understanding earnings quality: A review of the proxies, their determinants, and their consequences
Journal of Accounting and Economic , volume 50 , p. 344 - 401 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,132
RANK
92,044
24 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies