Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Resignation and Risk Factors

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/03

32 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2015

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Charles Tang

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Date Written: March 16, 2015

Abstract

Although auditor litigation risk is considered as a leading explanation for auditor resignations, audit risk, and business risk might also trigger resignations. Auditor litigation risk is defined as the risk of the auditor being involved in a lawsuit, audit risk is defined as the risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate audit opinion when the financial statements are materially misstated, and, finally, business risk is defined as the risk associated with the client's survival and profitability. Because the three risk factors are not mutually exclusive, we examine their relevance and incremental importance using measures from the pre- and post-resignation periods. Using summary indices from the pre-resignation period, we find that all the three ex-ante risk indices are incrementally important for resignations, especially when the predecessor auditor is a Big 4 firm. Because the ex-ante risk factors are prone to measurement errors and are less likely to capture auditor’s proprietary information about the client, we analyze data from the post-resignation period when the auditor’s proprietary information is likely to become publicly known. We find that within a three-year period following an auditor’s resignation, clients are more likely to: (1) be involved in class-action lawsuits (ex-post litigation risk), (2) have internal control problems (ex-post audit risk), and (3) to be delisted from a national stock exchange (ex-post business risk). Our research demonstrates that auditors consider all three risk factors, and not just litigation risk, in resignation decisions.

Keywords: auditor resignations; litigation risk; audit risk; business risk

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Tang, Charles Ya B., Auditor Resignation and Risk Factors (March 16, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2015/03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2579150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J C Bedard , K Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' Perceived Business Risk and Audit Fees: Analysis and Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Bockus , F Gigler
A theory of auditor resignation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 191 - 208 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Al (Aloke) Ghosh , Henry Jarva , Stephen G. Ryan
Do Bank Regulation and Supervision Substitute for Bank Auditing?
60 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 14 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 226
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kunsu Park , Juan Qin , Timothy A. Seidel , Jian Zhou
Determinants and Consequences of Noncompliance with the 2013 COSO Framework
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 4 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Hofmann , Sebastian B. Kuhn , Nina Schwaiger
Using Earnings Conference Call Discussions to Assess Internal Control Quality
48 Pages · Posted: 30 Mar 2022 · Last revised: 19 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 241
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian Bratten , Samer K. Khalil , Wenyin Li
Thank You, Next: An Examination of Repeat Auditor Changes
57 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2023 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 272
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,330
RANK
143,458
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies