Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture Risk: An Exploratory Study of the Influence of Culture on Auditors’ Evaluation of Internal Control and Assessment of Control Risk

77 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2015

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: January 1, 2012

Abstract

Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) require auditors to evaluate internal control and assess control risk when performing an audit. Among the factors to be considered are the control environment, control activities, management's attitude's toward internal control, and culture. Research on how, or whether, culture influences auditors' evaluation of internal control and assessment of control risk is lacking in the literature. The purpose of this study is to serve as a first step in determining whether culture influences auditors' evaluation of internal control and assessment of control risk and if so, how. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed on a non-random sample of 200 CPAs in the U.S. to determine whether there are differences in auditors' evaluation of internal control and assessment of control risk in different cultures. Using Hofstede's cultural dimensions (individualism, power distance, uncertainty avoidance and masculinity), the results of the study indicate that auditors evaluate internal control and assess control risk significantly different for companies that operate in countries that are on opposite ends of the cultural continuum as measured by Hofstede's dimensions. The results of the test suggest that for internal control there is a "culture risk" at work, that can be defined as the risk that an entity's internal control maybe be less (more) effective, with a higher (lower) degree of control risk, purely as a function of the culture in which the entity operates. Auditors assess control risk higher for companies operating in countries with a low individualism score, a high power distance score, and a low uncertainty avoidance score. They also evaluate total internal control as less effective in countries with a low individualism score, a high power distance score, a low masculinity score and a low uncertainty avoidance score. Areas for future research are suggested.

Keywords: culture risk, auditing, Hofstede, control risk, internal control

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Culture Risk: An Exploratory Study of the Influence of Culture on Auditors’ Evaluation of Internal Control and Assessment of Control Risk (January 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2583964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2583964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Statements on Auditing Standards
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Posted: 1998
G M Agacer
Perceptions of the auditor's independence: A cross-cultural study. Dissertation Posted: 1987
G M Agacer , T S Doupnik
Perceptions of auditor independence: A crosscultural study
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 26 , p. 230 - 267 Posted: 1991
G R Barrett
Is accounting becoming the first truly international profession
Journal of Accountancy , volume 174 , issue 4 , p. 110 - 123 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,927
RANK
247,257
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies