Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality: Does Gender Composition of Audit Firms Matter?

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2015

Tânia Menezes Montenegro

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Filomena Antunes Bras

University of Minho

Date Written: March 24, 2015

Abstract

Using a sample of Portuguese audit firms and their client companies, this study examines the association between gender composition of the partnership structure of audit firms and audit quality. Audit quality is measured through the earnings quality of audit clients. We find that gender diversity in the partnership structure of audit firms, per se, has no association with audit quality. In turn, we find significant evidence that a predominant presence of female CPAs in partner positions in audit firms is associated with higher audit quality. In particular, the results indicate that audit firms with female dominated partnership structures are negatively related with aggressive accounting practices in audit clients.

Keywords: Gender Diversity; Audit Quality; Earnings Quality; Portugal

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Menezes Montenegro, Tânia and Antunes Bras, Maria Filomena Pregueiro, Audit Quality: Does Gender Composition of Audit Firms Matter? (March 24, 2015). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2584931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget: The organizational embedding of gender relations in two large audit firms. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and Auditor-Client Negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
194,576
1 Citations
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies