Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Continuous Auditing and Role Duality on the Incidence and Likelihood of Reporting Management Opportunism

Management Accounting Research, 44: 44-56

13 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2015 Last revised: 22 Aug 2019

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Date Written: September 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether continuous auditing and functionally separating the internal audit function’s (IAF) dual role as provider of both assurance and consulting affect (1) internal auditors’ perceptions of the likelihood management opportunistically manipulates earnings and (2) the likelihood auditors report evidence of these reporting choices. Participants are 188 practicing internal auditors. Related to the first research question, I predict and find an ordinal interaction that suggests the perceived likelihood of earnings manipulation is least likely when the IAF both employs continuous auditing and functionally separates its roles. Related to the second research question, I find that separating the dual role increases the likelihood of reporting. In addition, how auditors perceive the likelihood of earnings manipulation positively affects the likelihood of reporting. Subsequent analyses examining both research questions in the context of accruals-based versus real earnings management suggest a more nuanced story. Related to the perceived likelihood of earnings manipulation, I find a similar ordinal interaction in the accruals setting but only find a main effect of continuous auditing in the real earnings management setting. Related to the likelihood of reporting, I find no significant effects in the accruals setting, but find that either continuous auditing or functional separation of the IAF’s dual role increases the likelihood of reporting identified incidences of real earnings manipulation. This study has implications for auditors, managers, and accounting researchers.

Keywords: continuous auditing; earnings management; internal audit; objectivity

JEL Classification: M420

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck, The Effect of Continuous Auditing and Role Duality on the Incidence and Likelihood of Reporting Management Opportunism (September 2019). Management Accounting Research, 44: 44-56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2585746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2585746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: the Joint importance of independence and competence
J. Accounting Res , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Evolution of Auditing: From the Traditional Approach to the Future Audit
A merican Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2012
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Account. Horiz , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity theory and the organization
Acad. Manag. Rev , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,340
RANK
120,303
8 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies