Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Growing Up: How Audit Internships Affect Students' Commitment and Long-Term Intentions to Work in Public Accounting

Issues in Accounting Education, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Feb 2016 Last revised: 25 Feb 2016

Matt Hart

Texas Tech University

Joleen Kremin

Portland State University

William Pasewark

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business, Area of Accounting

Date Written: February 28, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates factors that influence audit interns’ commitment and long-term intentions to work in public accounting. We measure the organizational and professional commitment of 127 audit interns prior to the start of busy-season internships with public accounting firms and then again at the conclusion of the internship. We find that both organizational and professional commitment decline significantly as a result of the internship experience. We note that heavy workloads during the internship decreased the degree of commitment to a particular firm. On the other hand, offering challenging work assignments and surrounding the intern with desirable coworkers significantly increased commitment to both the firm and the profession. We also find that changes in organizational commitment are related to changes in interns’ long-term intentions to work in public accounting and that, by the end of the internship, nearly 60% of the interns changed their views with regard to how long they planned to work in public accounting, with a majority of respondents anticipating a shorter career in the profession.

Keywords: audit internships, organizational commitment, professional commitment, auditors, turnover, public accounting

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hart, Matt and Kremin, Joleen and Pasewark, William, Growing Up: How Audit Internships Affect Students' Commitment and Long-Term Intentions to Work in Public Accounting (February 28, 2015). Issues in Accounting Education, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2585750
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies