Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Report Disclosures Lead to Increased Liability Exposure? An Investigation of Jurors’ Consideration of Auditors’ Disclosure of Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control

37 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2015

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Date Written: March 27, 2015

Abstract

Proposals for increased transparency and disclosure within audit reports are consistently met with conflict. Some suggest that auditor disclosures increase liability exposure for auditors, and should be the responsibility of management. Others suggest that such disclosures are beneficial to the users of the financial statements. Currently, the PCAOB is proposing a requirement for increased disclosure within the audit report on financial statements. This study proposes a similar requirement within the Section 404 auditor’s report on internal controls. A 2x2 between-subjects experiment manipulated the disclosure level (disclosed/not disclosed) and the auditability of the significant deficiency in controls (less auditable/more auditable) for a sample of 93 jury-qualified individuals. Results indicate that auditors may experience benefits of decreased liability exposure when they provide additional disclosure within the Section 404 report on internal controls. However, these favorable conditions are only present when the auditor discloses a deficiency in internal controls that is more auditable (less subjective), and not when the control is less auditable (more subjective). Results suggest that auditors are perceived as more blameworthy for their inaccurate judgments in subjective situations, and that this perception cannot be overcome by providing a disclosure within the 404 report. Implications for standard setters, auditors, and regulators are discussed.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Sarbanes-Oxley, Section 404, Internal Controls, Audit Reporting, Voluntary Disclosures, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian, Do Audit Report Disclosures Lead to Increased Liability Exposure? An Investigation of Jurors’ Consideration of Auditors’ Disclosure of Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control (March 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2586128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2586128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B Arel , M M Jennings , K Pany , P Reckers
Auditor liability: A comparison of judge and juror verdicts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 516 - 532 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C E Arrington , C D Bailey , W S Hopwood
An attributional analysis of responsibility assessment for audit performance
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1985
Crossref
S K Asare , L Cunningham , Wright , A
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Legal implications and research opportunities
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 19 , p. 88 - 105 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management Science , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,119
RANK
190,354
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies