Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What are the Drivers of Audit Quality after an Auditor Change? Evidence from Voluntary and Mandatory Auditor Switches

34 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2015 Last revised: 17 Aug 2017

Ulf Mohrmann

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: August 16, 2017

Abstract

While the accounting literature implies that increased discretionary accruals follow auditor changes, the underlying causal mechanism of this increase remains unclear. The potential reasons are the loss of the auditor’s firm-specific knowledge or the firm’s opportunistic choice of a new auditor. Differentiating between the drivers is important to understand the consequences of auditor changes and to decide on a regulatory reaction. Using the unique legal environment in the European Union, this study uses both voluntary and mandatory auditor changes to distinguish between these explanations. Whereas the loss of firm-specific knowledge affects both types of auditor changes, mandatory changes are less affected by opportunistic choices. I find that voluntary auditor changes are positively associated with discretionary accruals but not mandatory changes. The difference between the mandatory and voluntary changes is highly significant even after controlling for self-selection. Thus, the decrease in reporting quality is due to the strategic decision to change the auditor rather than to the loss of firm-specific knowledge.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Mandatory Auditor Rotation, Earnings Management, Auditor Choice

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Mohrmann, Ulf, What are the Drivers of Audit Quality after an Auditor Change? Evidence from Voluntary and Mandatory Auditor Switches (August 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2589486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2589486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
O Barron , J Pratt , J D Stice
Misstatement direction, litigation risk, and planned audit investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 449 - 462 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,342
RANK
159,412
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies