Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Mood on Subordinates’ Ability to Resist Coercive Pressure in Public Accounting

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2015 Last revised: 10 Jul 2016

Eric N. Johnson

University of Wyoming - Department of Accounting

D. Jordan Lowe

Arizona State University (ASU)

Philip Reckers

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 25, 2014

Abstract

This study reports on an experiment conducted to assess the influence of different affective mood states on auditors’ ability to resist obedience pressure to commit or overlook unethical acts in six audit contexts. Obedience pressure from superiors to comply with unethical directives is of particular concern in public accounting given the hierarchical structure of audit teams and the power imbalance in superior-subordinate relationships. One hundred seventy audit seniors from two large international public accounting firms participated in an experiment. Three different moods were induced in participants through work-related trigger events: one positive active mood state (arousal) and two negative passive mood states (fear and insignificance). These mood states were anticipated to influence auditors’ expressed willingness to comply with their superiors’ unethical directives as set forth in our ethical scenarios. Our results indicate that low levels of arousal and high levels of fear and insignificance influenced compliance intentions. Our results also indicate overall high levels of expressed willingness to comply with superiors’ unethical directives. Implications of our findings for understanding the antecedents of unethical conduct within the accounting profession and for future research are discussed.

Keywords: Moods, affect, experimental triggers, obedience pressure, unethical intentions

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Eric N. and Lowe, D. Jordan and Reckers, Philip, The Influence of Mood on Subordinates’ Ability to Resist Coercive Pressure in Public Accounting (July 25, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2589257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C J Anderson
The psychology of doing nothing: Forms of decision avoidance result from reason and emotion
Psychological Bulletin , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 167 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E B Andrade , J B Cohen , ; K Vohs , R Baumeister , G Loewenstein
Affect-based evaluation and regulation as mediators of behavior: The role of affect in risk taking, helping, and eating patterns
Do Emotions Help or Hurt Decision Making? A Hedgefoxian Perspective , p. 35 - 68 Posted: 2007
C Arrington , P M Reckers
A social psychological investigation into perceptions of tax evasion
Accounting and Business Research , volume 15 , issue 59 , p. 163 - 176 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Laurence Daoust , Bertrand Malsch
When the Client Is a Former Auditor: Auditees’ Expert Knowledge and Social Capital As Threats to Staff Auditors’ Operational Independence
75 Pages · Posted: 26 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 154
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marc Eulerich , Vanessa Lopez-Kasper , Amin Salimi Sofla
The Effects of COVID-19 and Continuous Auditing on Employees' Compliance with the Internal Control System: The Moderating Role of Conscientiousness
52 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 385
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alisa Gabrielle Brink , Bernhard Erich Reichert , J. Matthew Sarji
Mood matters: How positive and negative moods in the context of different compensation regimen affect the quantity and creativity of output ☆
55 Pages · Posted: 8 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Devon Jefferson , Lindsay M. Andiola , Patrick J. Hurley
Surviving Busy Season: Using the Job Demands-Resources Model to Investigate Coping Mechanisms
Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4120679, · 52 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 29 May 2024 · Downloads: 358
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,188
RANK
490,153
6 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies