Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Trust and Auditor Reporting Conservatism

Journal of Business Ethics, Volume 153, pp.1083–1108, 2018

61 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2015 Last revised: 3 Mar 2021

Deqiu Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Li Li

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Xuejiao Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: October 27, 2016

Abstract

We examine the implications of social trust for auditor reporting conservatism. Using a sample of listed companies in China, we find that clients located in high trust regions are less likely to receive a non-clean audit opinion. This negative impact of social trust on auditor reporting conservatism increases (decreases) when the client’s parent firm operates in a region of higher (lower) social trust, suggesting that social trust is contagious from a parent firm to its subsidiaries in a consolidated entity. We provide evidence that the trust contagion is more pronounced for clients with a higher percentage of parent appointed directors on their boards and clients whose parent firm has fewer subsidiaries. These findings indicate that monitoring and, to a lesser extent, personnel rotation may serve as potential channels of trust contagion. We also find that the impact of trust is more pronounced when the client is located closer to its audit firm, when the client’s parent firm is a state-owned enterprise or holds a higher percentage of the client’s shares, and when the client is associated with greater discretionary accruals. We provide further evidence that it is client rather than auditor trustworthiness that influences auditor reporting conservatism, auditors charge trustworthy clients lower fees, and clients from high-trust regions are less likely to manipulate earnings. Overall, our evidence suggests that social trust alleviates auditor concern about client moral hazard.

Keywords: Auditor reporting conservatism, Geographic proximity, Monitoring, Personnel rotation, Social trust, Trust contagion

JEL Classification: M42, M14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Deqiu and Li, Li and Liu, Xuejiao and Lobo, Gerald J., Social Trust and Auditor Reporting Conservatism (October 27, 2016). Journal of Business Ethics, Volume 153, pp.1083–1108, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2593627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,968
RANK
434,536
14 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies