Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing Information Needs to Reduce the Audit Expectation Gap: Evidence from Dutch Bankers, Audited Companies and Auditors

International Journal of Auditing (Forthcoming)

Posted: 17 Apr 2015

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Joost van Buuren

Nyenrode Business University

Ruud Vergoossen

Nyenrode Business University; Maastricht University

Date Written: April 15, 2015

Abstract

This study examines what the impact is of frequently proposed information needs on reducing the audit expectations gap (AEG), including information about the audited company, information about the audit process and changes of the auditors’ report. We base our findings on a survey with 302 participants from the Netherlands, consisting of 61 bankers, 118 preparers and 123 auditors. We consider the AEG in essence to be a classic agency problem. We find that stakeholders fall back in basic strategies to maximize their own value: bankers require additional information, management is reluctant to let the auditor provide sensitive information and auditors try to minimize their risks. Further, we observe that only information about the audit process with respect to continuity and the reporting on errors in the financial statements may reduce the bankers’ AEG. Finally, we observe that format changes of the auditors’ report do not reduce AEG.

Keywords: audit expectation gap, auditor reporting, agency cost

JEL Classification: M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and van Buuren, Joost and Vergoossen, Ruud, Addressing Information Needs to Reduce the Audit Expectation Gap: Evidence from Dutch Bankers, Audited Companies and Auditors (April 15, 2015). International Journal of Auditing (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594712
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,375
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies