Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Team Attributes Matter: How Diversity affects Audit Quality

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Apr 2015 Last revised: 1 Mar 2017

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Angelo Ditillo

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting; SDA Bocconi

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

It has been widely recognized that the way in which audit teams are structured and function plays a crucial role in determining the level of audit service quality. However, despite this claim, little empirical research has been conducted on this. Using private data from two of the Big 4 audit firms, we fill this gap and document how the diversity of audit teams influences audit quality.

By combining the existing work in psychology and sociology with that in auditing, we develop our model by arguing that teams are composed not simply of single auditors, but of sub-teams of individuals, which variously combined affect team performance. Starting from this premise, we study how the diversity of audit teams in terms of the different mix of work assigned to staff, seniors, managers, and partners influences audit quality, and how this effect varies depending on the years of tenure. We also show that the proportion of leading auditors characterized by a common educational background and the percentage of female leading auditors impact on audit quality. As additional analysis, we examine how team diversity affects audit efficiency. The same elements that are found to be relevant for audit quality affect also audit efficiency.

Keywords: Audit team, audit quality, team diversity

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Ditillo, Angelo and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate, Audit Team Attributes Matter: How Diversity affects Audit Quality (February 2017). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2595966
 Not Available for Download
0 References
5 Citations
Albert Nagy , Matthew Sherwood , Aleksandra Zimmerman
CPAs and Office Audit Quality
47 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2017 · Last revised: 7 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 500
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xianjie He , Jeffrey A. Pittman , Shuwei Sun , Donghui Wu
A Tale of Two Intermediaries: Investment Banker–Auditor Social Ties and IPO Quality
53 Pages · Posted: 1 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 15 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 518
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Karsten Asbahr , Klaus Ruhnke
Real Effects of Reporting Key Audit Matters on Auditors' Judgment and Choice of Action
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 165-180, 2019 · 16 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 35
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ting-Chiao Huang , Yi‐Hung Lin , Stephanie Hairston
Is There an Association between Accounting Firm Ranks and Audit Quality? An Examination of the Top 100 Accounting Firms in China
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 204-230, 2019 · 27 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies