Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Tenure, Bank Complexity, and Financial Reporting Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2015 Last revised: 21 Dec 2017

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 2017

Abstract

Theory from organizations and economics research posits that in an inter-organizational relationship, both parties invest in relationship-specific knowledge, which in turn facilitates the effectiveness of the relationship while strengthening the attachment between the parties. In complex settings where there are more opportunities for knowledge creation, the investments will be larger and the attachment stronger. Because banks are complex institutions that present unique challenges to auditors, we suggest that effective audits critically depend on the accumulation of significant investments in client-specific expertise through a long association with the client. We find a positive association between audit firm tenure and financial reporting quality, and this association is particularly strong in banks that are more complex. Also, contrary to recent research we find that benefits of audit firm tenure for complex banks accrue even for long tenure and are not limited to medium tenure. Our findings largely support the notion that a long relationship with the client reflects the underlying demand for expertise, which is critical for high-quality audits of complex organizations. Imposing short-term limits on audit firms would adversely affect the investments in client-specific expertise especially in the cases where this expertise is needed the most. Our findings do not support calls for mandatory audit firm rotation for large complex institutions.

Keywords: audit tenure, banking, mandatory rotation, complexity

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G18, G21

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Causholli, Monika and Omer, Thomas C., Audit Firm Tenure, Bank Complexity, and Financial Reporting Quality (November 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2595592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2595592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A C Acock
Discovering Structural Equation Modeling Using Stata Posted: 2013
Aicpa
Depository and Lending Institutions
AICPA Posted: 2012
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Alexander
Comments to the PCAOB public meeting on auditor independence and audit firm rotation: Views from a buy-side analyst Posted: 2012
Load more
5 Citations
Keith Czerney , Daun Jang , Thomas C. Omer
Client Deadline Concentration in Audit Offices and Audit Quality
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice and Theory (2018) · 51 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 493
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jefferson K. Abraham , Prasanna L. Tantri
Do Measures of Audit Quality Really Measure Audit Quality? Evidence from the Banking Industry
Indian School of Business · 43 Pages · Posted: 31 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 269
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ulf Mohrmann , Jan Riepe , Ulrike Stefani
Fool's Gold or Value for Money? The Link between Abnormal Audit Fees, Audit Firm Type, Fair‐Value Disclosures, and Market Valuation
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 181-203, 2019 · 23 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 5
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carl Gabrini , Bruce McDonald , Robert Eger
Does the Presence of Internal Audit Affect the Outcome of a Municipality’s Financial Audit?
Journal of Applied Business and Economics, 2020, Vol. 22, No. 10: 124-137 · 14 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,266
RANK
117,019
5 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies