Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Mandatory Rotation Rule: The State of the Art

Journal of Financial Perspectives, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Apr 2015

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Giulia Negri

SDA Bocconi

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 20, 2015

Abstract

Mandatory audit rotation imposes periodical breaks to audit engagements and is intended to avoid excessively long relationships between the auditor and the client. The E.U. has finally introduced mandatory rotation for the audit firm in addition to the already existing audit partner rotation rules. The U.S., however, has for now decided to retain the partner rotation rule without introducing mandatory audit firm rotations. After an overview of the experience of a number of countries, we summarize the pros and cons of a compulsory change in the audit firm. Moreover, we focus on the empirical evidence collected on the benefits and costs of the rule. So far, investigations into the impact of the rule at corporate and market level have not been able to prove that the benefits outweigh the costs.

Keywords: Audit rotation, Audit firm rotation, partner rotation

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Negri, Giulia and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate, The Audit Mandatory Rotation Rule: The State of the Art (April 20, 2015). Journal of Financial Perspectives, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596492
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies