Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protecting Existing and Prospective Investors and the Role of Internal Auditors

OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 08, No. 02, pp. 135-152, 2015

18 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2015

Md Ahmed

Independent University - School of Business

Shubhankar Shil

University of Liberal Arts - School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2015

Abstract

In this study we tried to explore the idea of the independence of internal audit committee, independence of finance and accounting departments and the corporate charter followed by the board of directors of an organization and how they protect existing and prospective investors. A multiple regression analysis and analysis of covariance (ancova) 2X2 have been used to analyze the data by using the R i386 2.1 5.1. A strong and positive relation has been found in this study with a highly correlated independent variable. It has been also found that 62% of the investors believed that internal auditors and finance and accounting executives are not independent at their work place. Surprisingly 89% felt that if internal audit committee and executives of finance and accounting departments work independently and effectively, then investors will be highly protected.

Keywords: Internal auditors, audit committee, investors’ protection and corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Md and Shil, Shubhankar, Protecting Existing and Prospective Investors and the Role of Internal Auditors (February 28, 2015). OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 08, No. 02, pp. 135-152, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Z Ahmad , D Taylor
Commitment to independence by internal auditors: the effects of role ambiguity and role conflict
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 899 - 925 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S G S Alam
Recent Trends in Capital Market of Bangladesh: Critical Evaluation or Regulation Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
RANK
441,817
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies