Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Auditors' Perceptions of the PCAOB Inspection Process: A Behavioral Examination

67 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2015 Last revised: 27 Jul 2018

Lindsay Johnson

Independent

Marsha B. Keune

University of Dayton

Jennifer Winchel

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: July 18, 2018

Abstract

This study examines U.S. auditors’ observations of the PCAOB inspection process, and its impact on their work, in order to understand the current U.S. regulatory audit climate. Using 20 interviews with experienced auditors, we consider behavioral factors (e.g., perceived power of and trust in the PCAOB) that can impact the level and form of auditor compliance according to theory from the slippery slope framework on audit regulation (Kirchler et al. 2008; Dowling et al. 2018). Our participants described an audit climate with a powerful regulator. They reported that their desire to receive “clean” inspection reports has had a substantial impact on audit procedures and quality control. However, our participants do not appear to have high trust in the PCAOB, as they questioned aspects of the inspection process and its expectations. Accordingly, we conclude that U.S. public company auditors operate in an antagonistic environment where auditors perceive the PCAOB has high coercive power. In other words, they comply due to fear of enforcement rather than agreement with the PCAOB’s views on audit quality. Some auditors also indicated that they consider both the costs and benefits of compliance. Theoretical intuition implies that any future increases to perceived costs relative to perceived benefits of compliance could ultimately decrease the PCAOB’s coercive power and reduce U.S. auditor compliance. Our findings have implications for regulators and researchers interested in understanding behavioral factors that may influence regulatory compliance.

Keywords: audit regulation; PCAOB inspections; audit deficiencies; compliance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Lindsay and Keune, Marsha B. and Winchel, Jennifer, U.S. Auditors' Perceptions of the PCAOB Inspection Process: A Behavioral Examination (July 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2597273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2597273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspections reports on small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB research: What have we learned
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,886
RANK
202,849
22 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies