Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Presence and Effect of the Winner's Curse in the Market for Audit Services: An Experimental Market Examination

49 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2015

Jessen L. Hobson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Robert Marley

University of Tampa

Mark J. Mellon

Northern Illinois University - Department of Accountancy

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: April 10, 2015

Abstract

We argue that the market for audit services closely resembles a common value procurement (seller’s) auction, where auditors generate a private estimate of the actual cost of an audit engagement prior to quoting the client a price. Thus, we conduct a systematic examination of audit pricing and audit quality in this market setting using two experiments. In experiment one, we examine a simplified setting in which auditors determine only audit price to investigate whether the “winner’s curse” found to be pervasive in the buyer’s version of the common value auction is also present in the seller’s version. In experiment two, we examine an enriched setting in which auditors determine both audit price and audit effort to investigate the robustness of our results and the effect of the winner’s curse on audit quality. In both experiments, we find that auditors fall prey to the winner’s curse and offer low ball prices on average. But we also find a differential learning process across the two markets. In experiment one, auditors learn to reduce their low ball pricing with market experience. In experiment two, however, auditors do not reduce their low ball pricing but instead reduce their audit effort when they contract at a low ball price. Our evidence suggests that low ball audit pricing arises due to the winner’s curse, and this source of low ball pricing poses a threat to audit quality.

Keywords: Keywords: winner’s curse, audit pricing, audit quality, common value auctions

JEL Classification: M41, C70, D44, D82

Suggested Citation:

Hobson, Jessen L. and Marley, Robert and Mellon, Mark J. and Stevens, Douglas E., The Presence and Effect of the Winner's Curse in the Market for Audit Services: An Experimental Market Examination (April 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2599227 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2599227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities: Report, Conclusion, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
Crossref
O Ashenfelter , D Genesore
Testing for Price Anomalies in Real Estate Auctions
American Economic Review: Papers and Proceedings , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 501 - 506 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Baiman , P Fischer , M Rajan , R Saouma
Resource allocation auctions within firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 915 - 946 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bazerman , W Samuelson
I won the auction but don't want the prize
Journal of Conflict Resolution , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 618 - 634 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Francis Goddard , Martin Schmidt
Exploratory Insights into Audit Fee Increases: A field study into Board Member Perceptions of Auditor Pricing Practices
International Journal of Auditing 25 (3), 637–660, ESCP Business School Research Paper, · Posted: 22 Apr 2019 · Last revised: 28 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,021
RANK
339,352
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies