Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Role of Audit Opinions in Debt Contracting

Journal of Accounting and Economics (2016) 61: 121-144

54 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2015 Last revised: 17 Mar 2016

Peter F. Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Shaohua He

Lancaster University

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the relevance of modified audit opinions (MAO) in private debt contracting. We use the auditor’s explanatory language to partition MAOs into Inconsistency opinions, resulting from an accounting change or a restatement; and Inadequacy opinions, arising from a material uncertainty or a going concern (GC) opinion. Using the loan contracts of firms with MAOs; we find that, compared with loans issued in the year after a clean opinion, loans issued in the year after an MAO are associated with higher interest spreads (17 basis points on average), fewer financial covenants, more general covenants, smaller loan sizes, and a higher likelihood of requiring collateral. We find that the effect on loan spreads (as well as on other non-price terms) varies by the type of MAO, ranging from no effect for an accounting change to an average increase of 107 basis points for a GC opinion. Additional analyses of GC opinions find that auditors communicate incremental information to lenders about clients’ credit risk. Overall, our empirical results suggest that lenders incorporate the information contained in MAOs into debt contracting.

Keywords: Debt Contracting, Audit Opinions, Going Concern Opinions, Explanatory Language

JEL Classification: G01, M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Peter Fusheng and He, Shaohua and Ma, Zhiming and Stice, Derrald, The Information Role of Audit Opinions in Debt Contracting (February 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Economics (2016) 61: 121-144, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2599886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Beatty , K Ramesh , J Weber
The importance of accounting changes in debt contracts: The cost of flexibility in covenant calculations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 205 - 227 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,733
RANK
33,835
7 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies