Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Conservatism and Auditor-Client Contracting

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-25

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 01.16

53 Pages Posted: 3 May 2015 Last revised: 12 Apr 2016

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

We find that auditors of more conservative clients charge lower fees, issue fewer going concern opinions, and resign less frequently, consistent with more conservative clients imposing less engagement risk on their auditors. Using path analysis we find evidence that both inherent risk and auditor business risk explain these associations. Also consistent with conservatism reducing auditor business risk, we find that client conservatism is associated with fewer lawsuits against auditors and with fewer client restatements. Taken together, our results are consistent with auditors viewing client conservatism as an important determinant of engagement risk that in turn affects auditor-client contracting decisions. Our findings should be of interest to auditors who actively manage client risk and to standard-setters who recently dropped conservatism as a desired attribute of financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Conservatism, audit fee, going concern audit opinion, auditor resignation, litigation risk, misstatement risk

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Lim, Chee Yeow and Zang, Yoonseok, Client Conservatism and Auditor-Client Contracting (March 1, 2015). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-25, Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 01.16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2601343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Lawrence Abbott , Katherine Gunny , Tracey Chunqi Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP- Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 32, issue 2, 2013[<a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-50374" rel="nofollow">10.2308/ajpt-50374</a>] Pages: 55 Posted: 15 Sep 2008 Last revised: 31 Jan 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflict over dividend policy and in reducing debt cost
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003-07
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,576
RANK
87,675
14 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies