Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Disclosure: Evidence of Government Expropriation from Worldwide Firms

World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 7254

50 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2016

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Barkat Ullah

Morgan State University

Zuobao Wei

University of Texas at El Paso

Lixin Colin Xu

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Date Written: May 4, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies the effects of voluntary accounting information disclosure through auditing on firm access to finance, exposure to corruption, and sales growth. Relying on a data set of more than 70,000 firms in 121 countries, the analysis finds that disclosure can be a double-edged sword. On the one hand, audited firms exhibit a slightly lower level of financial constraints than unaudited firms. On the other hand, audited firms face a significantly higher level of corruption obstacles. The net effects of voluntary information disclosure on firm growth are negative, which can largely be explained by the fact that most of the countries in the sample are developing countries where institutions are weak. The beneficial effect of disclosure increases as a country?s property rights protection improves. The qualitative results are robust to considerations of the endogeneity of auditing and to alternative measures of corruption and financial constraints. The findings reveal the dark side of voluntary information disclosure: exposing firms to government expropriation where institutions are weak.

Keywords: Private Sector Economics, Private Sector Development Law, Marketing

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Tingting and Ullah, Barkat and Wei, Zuobao and Xu, Lixin Colin, The Dark Side of Disclosure: Evidence of Government Expropriation from Worldwide Firms (May 4, 2015). World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 7254, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Acemouglu , S Johnson
Unbundling Institutions
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 5 , p. 949 - 95 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: an empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 15 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , P Griffith , Howitt
Competition and Innovation: An Inverted-U Relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
274,135
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies