Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Audit Services Provided to Audit Clients, Independence of Mind and Independence in Appearance: Latest Evidence from Large UK Listed Companies

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 46, Issue 4, pp. 422-449. DOI: 10.1080/00014788.2015.1048772.

Posted: 6 May 2015 Last revised: 1 Mar 2017

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Ray Donnelly

University College, Cork

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the provision of non-audit services (NAS) to audit clients impairs auditor independence of mind and independence in appearance. The main contributions of this paper are in terms of its timeliness with respect to regulatory changes, the simultaneous examination of both forms of auditor independence and the methodological innovation whereby it uses a variable derived from the level of abnormal audit fees as a moderating variable in order to capture the direct impact of the NAS fee level on auditor independence as well as how its influence is moderated by the level of unexpected audit fees. Our results indicate that auditor independence of mind is compromised by the size of NAS fees, particularly for clients who pay below the level of expected audit fee. The stock market perceives that auditor independence is compromised by NAS fees but, at the same time, additional tests indicate that there are benefits that accrue from NAS and, in particular, the relation between return and non-discretionary net income is increasing in NAS fees. The balance of evidence suggests that the EU is correct in undertaking some reform of the auditing market.

Keywords: Auditor independence, independence of mind, independence in appearance, non-audit services

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Campa, Domenico and Donnelly, Raymond, Non-Audit Services Provided to Audit Clients, Independence of Mind and Independence in Appearance: Latest Evidence from Large UK Listed Companies (2016). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 46, Issue 4, pp. 422-449. DOI: 10.1080/00014788.2015.1048772., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602782
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies