Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Economics of Audit Market Reform

Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 26(3): 271-283, 2016

32 Pages Posted: 5 May 2015 Last revised: 11 Nov 2016

Boon Seng Tan

Nanyang Technological University - Nanyang Centre for Public Administration

Yew Kee Ho

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 4, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of audit market reforms since 2001 is to restore public confidence in the institution of auditing based on two considerations: (1) ensuring audit quality, and (2) controlling the “adverse effect of competition” in audit supply. Market reforms for audit quality are delivered through a package of prescribed actions motivated by an analytical relationship between audit quality and its possible determinants: (1) limiting audit tenure through a combination of mandatory firm rotation, partner rotation and re-tendering; (2) limiting provision of non-audit services (NAS) by incumbent auditor; and (3) joint auditing and empowering the audit committee to enhance audit quality. This paper examines the competing independence hypothesis and expertise hypothesis that produce ambiguous theoretical relationships for audit quality-audit tenure, and independence-provision of NAS. We then review whether empirical literature resolves these conundrums. We also review the usefulness of joint auditing and empowering the audit committee to improve audit quality in the context of audit market reform.

Keywords: Audit Reform, Audit Quality, Audit Tenure, Non-Audit Services, Joint Audit, Audit Committee

JEL Classification: M4, L5

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Boon Seng and Ho, Yew-Kee, Some Economics of Audit Market Reform (May 4, 2015). Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 26(3): 271-283, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2602605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
internal validity) and extrapolation outside the sample (external validity)
J Caskey , V Nagar , P Petacchi
Reporting Bias with an Audit Committee
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 481 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Y Chen , C J Lin , Y C Lin
Audit Partner Tenure
Audit Firm Tenure, and Discretionary Accruals: Does Long Auditor Tenure Impair Earnings Quality?', Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 415 - 445 Posted: 2008
W Chi , H Huang
Discretionary Accruals, Audit-Firm Tenure and Audit-Partner Tenure: Empirical Evidence from Taiwan
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
397,014
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies