Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Framing on Information Search and Information Evaluation in Auditors’ Fair Value Judgments

47 Pages Posted: 8 May 2015 Last revised: 12 Feb 2016

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Lisa Milici Gaynor

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Norma R. Montague

Wake Forest University - School of Business

Julie Wayne

Wake Forest University

Date Written: February 10, 2016

Abstract

Fair values and other accounting estimates (FVOEs) are common in financial reporting (IAASB, 2009) and regulators are concerned that auditors are insufficiently skeptical in their evaluations of FVOEs (PCAOB, 2009, 2015a, b; IFIAR, 2014). Utilizing an experiment with auditors as participants, we examine the effects of different audit guidance frames (i.e., positive: “support” management’s assertions, balanced: “support and oppose” management’s assertions, and negative: “oppose” management’s assertions) on fair value estimates and examine the processes by which these effects occur. Our results indicate that providing a balanced frame (versus a positive or negative frame) influences auditors’ fair value estimates by affecting the manner in which they evaluate information such that they use relatively more evidence opposing than supporting management’s assertions. This, in turn, results in perceptions of a greater risk of material misstatement which thereby results in lower fair value estimates. Because current audit guidance provides a positive frame, our results point to the need to adopt audit guidelines that promote more balanced search strategies and, in turn, potentially could lead to more conservative (i.e., more skeptical) auditor judgments.

Keywords: Framing, Confirmation Bias, Professional Skepticism, Fair Value, Decision Making

JEL Classification: C91, G18, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Gaynor, Lisa Milici and Montague, Norma R. and Wayne, Julie, The Effect of Framing on Information Search and Information Evaluation in Auditors’ Fair Value Judgments (February 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2602783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Response to the FASB's exposure draft on fair value measurements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 196 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A A Austin , J S Hammersley , M A Ricci
Improving Auditors' Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Complex Estimate Assumptions. Working paper Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ann G. Backof , E. Michael Bamber , Tina Carpenter
Do Auditor Judgment Frameworks Help in Constraining Aggressive Reporting? Evidence under More Precise and Less Precise Accounting Standards
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming Posted: 9 Jan 2012 Last revised: 13 Jan 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
2 Citations
Hwee Cheng Tan , Ken T. Trotman
Information Processing Biases in Impairment Decisions: Effect of Reversibility of Impairment Losses and Disclosure Transparency
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 77 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Yuepin Zhou
Mitigating the Influence of Motivated Reasoning on Auditor Judgment
Posted: 6 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 15 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,531
RANK
149,881
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies