Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Auditors Respond to CEO Narcissism? Evidence from External Audit Fees

Accounting Horizons 31 (4): 33-52 DOI: 10.2308/acch-51810

Posted: 13 May 2015 Last revised: 8 Jul 2020

J. Scott Judd

University of Illinois at Chicago

Kari Olsen

Utah Valley University

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 9, 2017

Abstract

Prior research on CEO narcissism has focused on outcomes related to the CEO’s firm. We extend this literature by examining how an important counterparty—the firm’s external auditor—responds to a client having a more narcissistic CEO. Compared to other firms, firms with narcissistic CEOs are more likely to exhibit greater inherent risk and control risk. To maintain an acceptable level of audit risk when faced with the heightened risk of CEO narcissism, auditors must do additional work. Consistent with this notion, we find that CEO narcissism has an economically and statistically significant positive effect on external audit fees, indicating that auditors work more, charge a risk premium, or both when auditing a client with a more narcissistic CEO. We also find that firms with narcissistic CEOs are more likely to have internal control weaknesses, which suggests a possible mechanism for why auditors might need to perform more work. This is the first study to provide large-sample real-world evidence on how auditors respond to CEO narcissism and demonstrates the significant effect that executive personality characteristics can have in an audit setting.

Keywords: Audit Risk; Auditor Resignations; Audit Fees; Executive Personality Traits; Narcissism

Suggested Citation:

Judd, Joshua and Olsen, Kari and Stekelberg, James, How do Auditors Respond to CEO Narcissism? Evidence from External Audit Fees (March 9, 2017). Accounting Horizons 31 (4): 33-52 DOI: 10.2308/acch-51810, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2605172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2605172
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,060
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies