Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Selection Following Auditor Turnover: Do Peers’ Choices Matter?

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 17 May 2015 Last revised: 24 Mar 2017

Xudong (Daniel) Li

Monmouth University - Department of Accounting

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Date Written: March 21, 2017

Abstract

Drawing on social norms and social learning theories, this study investigates the influences of peer (similar) firms’ prior choices on whether or not a client chooses to affiliate with a “social norm” audit office in its metropolitan area, following auditor turnover. The office in a metro area auditing the largest number of peer firms along a given similarity dimension is considered to be the social norm office for that dimension. We identify peer firms using four alternative dimensions of similarity: client geographic location, industry affiliation, client size (filing status), and departing auditor type (Big N versus non-Big N). Using a large sample of auditor changes from the years 2001 to 2012, we find that for every dimension of similarity, the propensity of a client to select a norm (as opposed to a non-norm) audit office as the succeeding auditor is positively associated with 1) the proportion of its peers audited by the “norm” office in the prior year (i.e., social norm evidence) and 2) the proportion of its auditor-switching peers selecting a “norm” audit office in the prior year (i.e. social learning evidence). Social norm and social learning evidence provided by “more similar” peers has greater effect than evidence provided by “less similar” peers across all four dimensions of peer similarity. Further analysis suggests that social norm and learning evidence has incremental power (beyond each other) in explaining auditor selection, with norm evidence exhibiting a larger effect than learning evidence. Additional analysis of SOX 404(b) internal control audit provides an example disruption in the social norm for the client size dimension of similarity.

Keywords: Auditor choice; Audit office; Auditor turnover; Experience good; Metro audit market; Peer choice; Social norm; Social learning

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xudong (Daniel) and Sun, Lili and Ettredge, Michael L., Auditor Selection Following Auditor Turnover: Do Peers’ Choices Matter? (March 21, 2017). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Will Ciconte , Andrew Kitto
Profit Persistence in the U.S. Audit Market
102 Pages · Posted: 20 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 287
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jere R. Francis , Nargess Golshan , Inder Khurana
Local Peers and Corporate Reporting Behavior
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming · 60 Pages · Posted: 5 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 19 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 251
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joshua L. Gunn , Chan Li , Lin Liao , Jinxuan Yang , Shan Zhou
Audit Firms' Corporate Social Responsibility Activities and Auditor Reputation
<span>Accounting, Organizations and Society, forthcoming&nbsp;</span> · 61 Pages · Posted: 21 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 19 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,894
RANK
299,879
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies