Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services, and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 3, 2015

Posted: 22 May 2015

Timothy B. Bell

KPMG International, LLP - Assurance & Advisory Services Center

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: May 2015

Abstract

We use data from internal assessments of audit quality in a Big 4 firm to investigate the impact of audit firm tenure and auditor-provided non-audit services (NAS) on audit quality. We find that first-year audits receive lower assessments of audit quality and that quality improves shortly thereafter and then declines as tenure becomes very long. Partitioning our sample between SEC registrants and private clients, we find that the decline in audit quality in the long tenure range is attributable to audits of private clients. For audits of SEC registrants, the probability of a high quality audit reaches its maximum with very long tenure. We also find that audit fees are discounted for first-year audits but auditor effort is higher than in subsequent years. We find no association, on average, between total NAS fees and audit quality in the full sample but observe that total NAS fees are positively associated with quality for SEC registrants and negatively associated with quality for privately held clients. Our findings are important for regulatory policies related to audit firm tenure and auditor-provided NAS.

Keywords: audit quality, audit firm tenure, non-audit services

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G18, L84

Suggested Citation:

Bell, Timothy B. and Causholli, Monika and Knechel, Warren Robert, Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services, and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality (May 2015). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608541
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,954
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies