Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Judgments About Auditor Liability Influenced by Audit Committee Expertise and Independence?

38 Pages Posted: 22 May 2015

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

S. Jane (Kennedy) Jollineau

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Date Written: April 21, 2015

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (2002) required that firms disclose whether their audit committee has at least one independent financial expert. This study examines whether the independence and expertise of audit committee members lower the exposure of external auditors to legal liability. We use an experiment where potential jurors make judgments about auditor independence and legal liability for a case that involves an audit failure. We find that audit committee independence is associated with judgments of increased auditor independence and lower legal liability. However, exposure to legal liability is highest when audit committee financial expertise is high but independence from management is low, consistent with the perception that powerful audit committee members can use their influence opportunistically.

Keywords: Auditor independence, audit committee financial expert, audit committee independence, financial statement fraud and misstatements, audit failure, legal liability

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian and Kennedy Jollineau, S. Jane, Are Judgments About Auditor Liability Influenced by Audit Committee Expertise and Independence? (April 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2608545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M D Alicke , M F Weigold , S L Rogers
Inferring intentions and responsibility from motives and outcomes: Evidential and extra-evidential judgments
Social Cognition , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 286 - 305 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P G Badolato , D C Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,168
RANK
317,158
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies