Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Opinion Shopping

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 May 2015 Last revised: 23 Jul 2015

Leigh Salzsieder

University of Missouri at Kansas City

Date Written: May 19, 2015

Abstract

This study reports the results of an experiment designed to provide empirical evidence related to fair value opinion shopping. The experiment provides initial evidence that managers are likely to shop for fair value opinions from external valuation professionals in the absence of a requirement to disclosure that behavior to the board or auditor. Disclosure becomes a meaningful deterrent as the beneficiary of opinion shopping is perceived to be the manager. However, disclosure is an ineffective deterrent when the beneficiary is perceived to be shareholders.

Keywords: fair value measurement; opinion shopping; deterrence

Suggested Citation:

Salzsieder, Leigh, Fair Value Opinion Shopping (May 19, 2015). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2608078
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
960
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies