Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Audit-Partner Quality and Engagement Quality: Evidence from Financial Report Misstatements

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 24 May 2015

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: May 22, 2015

Abstract

We study whether audit-partner quality influences the probability of annual report misstatements (measured by restatements) and whether various levels of quality control attenuate such influences. We measure audit-partner quality with audit failure rate (i.e., the total number of audit failures associated with an audit partner divided by the total number of audit reports signed by the same partner). We report the following key findings. First, an audit partner’s past audit failure rate is positively associated with the probability that the current year annual report that he or she audits is subsequently restated. This positive association is more pronounced for engagement partners (i.e., partners who actually conduct the audits) than for review partners (i.e., partners who review the audits). Incorporating audit partner audit failure rates substantially increases the predictive power for future financial report restatements. Second, neither engagement-team-level nor audit-firm-level quality controls consistently attenuate engagement audit partners’ influence on the probability of future restatements. Third, engagement audit partners’ influence on the probability of future restatements becomes stronger for audits of more important clients. Taken together, the evidence suggests that, despite various levels of quality control, audit-partner quality significantly influences engagement quality and that such influences are exacerbated by audit partners’ own economic incentives.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng and Zhao, Yuping, The Association between Audit-Partner Quality and Engagement Quality: Evidence from Financial Report Misstatements (May 22, 2015). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2609528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
AICPA)
Reports on Audited Financial Statements. Statement on Auditing Standard , issue 58 Posted: 1989
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,614
RANK
154,771
5 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies