Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Strategic Options of Supreme Audit Institutions: The Case of Four Nordic Countries

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 May 2015

Kim Klarskov Jeppesen

Copenhagen Business School

Thomas Carrington

Uppsala University

Bino Catasus

Stockholm University - School of Business

Åge Johnsen

Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences

Kristin Reichborn-Kjennerud

Oslo and Akershus University

Jarmo Vakkuri

Tampere University - Department of Administrative Science

Date Written: May 26, 2015

Abstract

Based on the theory of professional competition, this paper identify and investigates four strategic options of supreme audit institutions (SAIs) through a case study of four Nordic national audit offices: a performance auditing strategy; a financial auditing strategy; a portfolio strategy; and a hybrid strategy. The analysis of the Nordic SAIs shows that while one SAI appears to have adopted a hybrid strategy, the portfolio strategy has been chosen by the three other SAIs, although with some variations in the portfolio. The paper concludes by discussing the implications of these strategic options for public sector auditing.

Keywords: Supreme audit institutions, Strategy, Jurisdiction, Performance audit, Evaluation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Jeppesen, Kim Klarskov and Carrington, Thomas and Catasus, Bino and Johnsen, Åge and Reichborn-Kjennerud, Kristin and Vakkuri, Jarmo, The Strategic Options of Supreme Audit Institutions: The Case of Four Nordic Countries (May 26, 2015). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2610546
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies