Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Annexing New Audit Spaces: Challenges and Adaptations

Posted: 27 May 2015

Paul Andon

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Clinton Free

University of Sydney Business School

Brendan O'Dwyer

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: May 26, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines attempts at jurisdictional expansion in the audit field. Specifically, we critically analyse the professional implications of ‘new audit spaces’, that is, novel auditing and assurance services that have emerged at intersections between audit and other fields such as the environment, the public sector, sport and education. The purpose is two-fold. First, to better understand the dynamics of new audit spaces, and second, to highlight the major challenges and adaptations prompted by these dynamics.

Design/methodology/approach: Drawing on Bourdieu’s theory of practice, we highlight and problematise four issues central to the construction of new audit spaces: (1) independence; (2) reporting; (3) professional accreditation; and (4) the nature of the audit role.

Findings: The audit profession has experienced mixed success in seeking to annex new audit spaces; in some instances, practices initially located at the margins of auditing have moved towards its centre, while elsewhere projects have been abandoned, colonised by others or remain in flux. In these ventures, the accounting profession is brought into competition with other bodies of expertise and modes of practice. In new audit spaces, core elements of auditing, as conventionally conceived, are transmogrified as they travel.

Originality/value: This analysis calls into question some of the ‘sacred cows’ of auditing and challenges the transferability of the capitals and habitus of the accounting profession in other domains. Future research avenues are suggested.

Keywords: New audit spaces; Independence; Audit report; Accreditation; Bourdieu; Accounting profession

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Andon, Paul and Free, Clinton Wallace and O'Dwyer, Brendan, Annexing New Audit Spaces: Challenges and Adaptations (May 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2610959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2610959
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies