Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Entrepreneur’s Role in the Performance Growth of the Financial Audit Activity in Romania

The Economic Amphitheatre (Amfiteatru Economic) Journal 17(38), pp. 228-246

19 Pages Posted: 31 May 2015

Cristina Popescu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Veronica Popescu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Gheorghe Popescu

Independent

Date Written: february 2015

Abstract

For the study of entrepreneurship, a cornerstone of modern competitive economy, perhaps there is no liberal profession better suited to be analysed than the financial audit. The financial auditor is meant to be an entrepreneur, to take his destiny into his own hands, because, in order to be independent, a demand induced by the ethical code provides that he cannot work as an employee of his services’ users. This paper proposes a research for identifying and presenting the entrepreneur’s role in the performance growth in the financial audit. The main objective of the conducted research is to present an overview of the entrepreneurship environment, to identify opportunities and challenges faced by the entrepreneur involved in the financial auditing of the level of development reached by the auditing market in Romania, by analysing representative statistical indicators in the market development and financial management of the audit activity. The proposed research methodology focuses on the collection, processing and analysis of statistical data on entrepreneurship of financial audit activity, based on official data published by the Chamber of Financial Auditors of Romania (CAFR), and on the identification of the main factors leading to the development of supply and demand of financial auditing and of the shortcomings the financial audit contractor involved in his own surveys is facing. Being a fairly new regulated profession, I had the privilege to analyse the developments in the entrepreneurship activity of the financial audit market for the entire period of existence: 1999-2013, showing the dynamic structure of supply and demand of financial auditing, the development and characteristics of the business environment during the period under review, the specificity of the financial audit entrepreneurship and I could outline a sketch of the entrepreneur involved in the financial audit activity. The research results show that the number of financial auditors, individuals and legal entities, had experienced a continuous growth, reflecting on one hand the attraction for the new profession and, on the other hand the role of modelling highlighted of the new professions, especially, the effects of organizational or regulatory measures such as the introduction of the three years stage in 2002, or the ability to harness the social and economic entrepreneurial opportunities induced by the economic and financial crisis, which imposed the necessity of audit entities to be subject to restructuring, or else becoming insolvent. The major role of entrepreneurship in developing the financial audit activity in Romania is revealed by empowering entrepreneurs, auditors, able to contribute to the growth and diversification of demand, audits reaching from 197 in 2001 to 6,588 in 2013. The research analyses in the end the dynamics of performance in audit work by defining specific performance indicators which show, synthetically, the entrepreneur’s role in the improvement of the financial audit activity, and the growth of its performance.

Keywords: financial audit, entrepreneur, entrepreneurial environment, entrepreneurial performance indicators, factors that influence entrepreneurial decisions in financial audit, portrait of the financial auditor entrepreneur

JEL Classification: C4, E00, F6, G00, M2, M4, O5

Suggested Citation:

Popescu, Cristina and Popescu, Veronica and Popescu, Gheorghe, The Entrepreneur’s Role in the Performance Growth of the Financial Audit Activity in Romania (february 2015). The Economic Amphitheatre (Amfiteatru Economic) Journal 17(38), pp. 228-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2612500 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2612500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
V Balaure , V Adascalitei , C Balan , Şt Boboc , I Catoiu , V Olteanu , Al , N Pop , N Teodorescu
Posted: 2002
S R Berinde , A Groşanu , P R Răchişan
Study on substantiation of managerial decisions in order to improve the shareholders' investment in the audited entities
Audit Financiar , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 30 - 39 Posted: 2014
O.-C Bunget , R G Blidişel , A C Dumitrescu
The financial auditor's reaction to the challenges of the economic and financial crisis
Audit Financiar , p. 3 - 11 Posted: 2014
R Cantillon
Essai sur la Nature du Commerce en Général. (Essay on the Nature of Trade in General) Posted: 1755
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,202
RANK
390,908
4 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies