Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Concentration in Malaysia: A Descriptive Analysis of the Top 10 Audit Firms in Malaysia from 2009-2013

18 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2015

Teh Chee Ghee

Monash University Malaysia

Ferdinand A. Gul

Monash University Sunway Campus

Date Written: April 26, 2015

Abstract

While the global auditing services market is presently dominated by a group of four auditing firms (Big Four) namely Deloitte, Ernst & Young (EY), KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the auditing profession in Malaysia offers several exceptions in the audit of public-listed companies (PLCs). In this study of the top ten auditing firms in Malaysian PLCs audit market for the period 2009 to 2013, it was found that BDO has overtaken Deloitte as the fourth largest auditing firm in Malaysia PLCs market segment, measured by audit fee income, clients’ market capitalisation and the turnover of their audit clients. Nevertheless, Deloitte remain strong in the referral audit of foreign multinational corporations (MNCs) in Malaysia as globally, Deloitte has overtaken PwC as the world largest accounting firm since 2013. As such, studies comparing the global Big Four versus non-Big Four auditing firms in Malaysia has to be treated with more caution to ensure comparability of the composition of the Big Four in the global arena. Also, Pareto 80:20 rule can be used to describe the audit market concentration issue in Malaysia as the top 10 audit firms in Malaysia audit 80% of the public listed companies in Malaysia.

Keywords: Audit market concentration, Malaysia, Big Four

JEL Classification: M4, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chee Ghee, Teh and Gul, Ferdinand A., Audit Market Concentration in Malaysia: A Descriptive Analysis of the Top 10 Audit Firms in Malaysia from 2009-2013 (April 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2613240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2613240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A
Audit Fees Charged (RM'000)
B
Clients' Market Cap
Crossref
C Clients
Turnover (RM million)
D Clients
Total Assets (RM million)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
947
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,821
RANK
56,418
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies