Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Readability of International Illustration of Auditor's Report: An Advanced Reflection on the Compromise between Normative Principles and Linguistic Requirements

Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 20, pp. 21-29, 2015

9 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2015

Mondher Fakhfakh

University of Sfax

Date Written: June 3, 2015

Abstract

The independent auditors periodically publish reports that summarize the audit results. These reports reinforce the financial communication and reliability of accounting information. International Standards on Auditing (ISA) determine the content of audit reports and the quality of audit results. Theoretically, the audit standardization must model intelligible and clear reports for readers. Compliance with linguistic principles contributes to the improvement of the structure of audit reports. In practice, the effectiveness of these reports is criticized because users do not understand the audit information. In order to improve the content of audit reports, International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) had revised International Standards on Auditor’s report: ISA 700: Forming an opinion and reporting on financial statements. Linguistically, standardized audit reports could be unreadable by many users of financial statements. This article discusses the linguistic problems related to the preparation of reports. This discussion focuses on the audit reports which are illustrated by the International Standards on Auditing. The results show that in the presence of conflicting requirements (auditing standards versus linguistic principles), independent auditors must optimize the presentation of their reports.

Keywords: Auditing, International auditors’ reports, ISA 700, Content of audits, Understandability, Readability and determinants of legibility

Suggested Citation:

Fakhfakh, Mondher, The Readability of International Illustration of Auditor's Report: An Advanced Reflection on the Compromise between Normative Principles and Linguistic Requirements (June 3, 2015). Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 20, pp. 21-29, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2614043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Archer , S Mcleay , J Dufour
Audit report on financial statements of European multinational companies: A comparative study
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Posted: 1989
A Barnett , K Leoffler
Readability of accounting and auditing messages
Journal of Business Communication , volume 16 , p. 49 - 59 Posted: 1979
Crossref
H Dubay
The principles of readability Posted: 2004
H Fakhfakh , M Fakhfakh
The impact of revised ISA 700: An international empirical comparison
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 6 , p. 274 - 326 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
RANK
521,427
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Financial Markets Regulation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies