Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Owner-Managers of Micro-Companies Opt for Voluntary Audits? The Importance of Debt Providers’ versus Entrepreneurs’ Needs

38 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2015

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Jill Collis

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School

Juha Kinnunen

Aalto University School of Business

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Pontus Troberg

Helsinki School of Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the extent to which the pressures from outside stakeholders, specifically the providers of debt and trade credit, as opposed to owner-managers’ internal needs explain the use of voluntary audits in micro-companies. Whereas previous studies have mainly focused on how bank debt affects the demand for voluntary audit in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), micro-companies have largely been overlooked in related prior literature. Using a sample of some 50,000 Finnish micro-companies over the period 2008-2010, we find that voluntary audit is expectedly more likely in micro-companies which have above average levels of trade credit or bank finance than those relying on owner’s equity. Surprisingly, the results also indicate that a very significant proportion of companies (26 percent) relying on owner’s equity only also choose voluntary audit. Interview data provide insights into the reasons hereof and confirm the benefits of audit in reducing control risk and business risk for management.

Keywords: voluntary audit, micro-company, owner-manager, agency theory, triangulation

JEL Classification: M13, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ojala, Hannu and Collis, Jill and Kinnunen, Juha and Niemi, Lasse and Troberg, Pontus, Why Do Owner-Managers of Micro-Companies Opt for Voluntary Audits? The Importance of Debt Providers’ versus Entrepreneurs’ Needs (September 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2617169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2617169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why Do Private Companies Demand Auditing? A Case for Organizational Loss of Control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Anderson , J R Gree , D J Stokes
Auditing, Directorships and the Demand for Monitoring
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 12 , p. 353 - 375 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Berger , G Udell
The Economics of Small Business Finance: The Roles of Private Equity and Debt Markets in the Financial Growth Cycle
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 22 , p. 613 - 673 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
409,562
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies