Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Are Expanded Audit Reports Not Informative to Investors? Evidence From the United Kingdom

Lennox, C., J. Schmidt, and A. Thompson. Are expanded audit reports informative to investors? Evidence from the UK. Forthcoming at the Review of Accounting Studies.

Posted: 19 Jun 2015 Last revised: 14 Sep 2021

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: September 13, 2021

Abstract

Standard-setters worldwide have passed new audit reporting requirements aimed at making audit reports more informative to investors. In the UK, the new standard expands the audit reporting model by requiring auditors to disclose the risks of material misstatement (RMMs) that had the greatest effect on the financial statement audit. Using short window tests, prior research indicates that these disclosures are not incrementally informative to investors (Gutierrez, Minutti-Meza, Tatum, and Vulcheva 2018). In this study, we investigate three potential explanations for why investors do not find the additional auditor risk disclosures to be informative. First, using long-window tests, we find no evidence that the insignificant short-window market reactions are due to a delayed investor reaction to RMMs. Second, using value relevance tests, we show that the insignificant market reactions are not due to auditors disclosing irrelevant information. Finally, we provide evidence suggesting that RMMs lack information content because investors were already informed about the financial reporting risks before auditors began disclosing them in expanded audit reports.

Keywords: Audit reporting, Disclosure, Risks of material misstatement

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Thompson, Anne, Why Are Expanded Audit Reports Not Informative to Investors? Evidence From the United Kingdom (September 13, 2021). Lennox, C., J. Schmidt, and A. Thompson. Are expanded audit reports informative to investors? Evidence from the UK. Forthcoming at the Review of Accounting Studies., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2619785
 Not Available for Download
0 References
28 Citations
Modar Abdullatif , Ayat S. Al‐Rahahleh
Applying a new audit regulation: Reporting Key Audit Matters in Jordan
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 268 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Ling Na Belinda Yau
Perceiving Auditors' Tone
The paper has been accepted and forthcoming at European Accounting Review. · 57 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2021 · Last revised: 14 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 152
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Johanna Klueber , Anna Gold , Christiane Pott
Do Key Audit Matters Impact Financial Reporting Behavior?
35 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 1,890
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeff Zeyun Chen , Anastasios Elemes , Ole-Kristian Hope , Aaron Yoon
Audit-Firm Profitability: Determinants and Implications for Audit Outcomes
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2021 · Last revised: 30 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 957
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies