Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Response to Management Confidence and Misstatement Risk

52 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2015 Last revised: 25 Feb 2022

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

Corporate managers display varying degrees of confidence, but investors appear to have difficulty distinguishing when management’s high confidence is warranted (i.e., when it signals accuracy and/or future positive outcomes). Archival research finds that the managers associated with proxies for high confidence are actually “overconfident” because their choices ultimately resulted in personal and shareholder losses, on average. Auditors are experienced in evaluating management and are trained to be professionally skeptical, and users rely on them to reduce the information risk around noisy signals in financial reporting. Therefore, we investigate whether and how management confidence impacts auditors’ response to the risk of material misstatement (RMM). Audit standards are explicit that auditors should increase testing and acquire more reliable evidence as RMM increases. Accordingly, we conduct an experiment, varying management confidence in their explanations about an accounting estimate and RMM at the client. We find, consistent with the thought-suppression literature, that although auditors universally believe relying on management’s explanations without corroboration is inappropriate and that high confidence signals management’s desire to induce auditor reliance, they do not distinguish their response to RMM when management confidence is high. When management confidence is low, auditors appropriately perform more testing for clients where RMM is higher than lower. Auditors’ testing judgements moderate their likelihood of pursuing inquiry evidence for higher than lower risk clients when management confidence is high versus when it was low. Our finding is troublesome because deceitful managers can readily manipulate confidence and influence the explanations and inquiry evidence presented to auditors. Thus, our research offers evidence that auditor tendency to be influenced by high management confidence can play a contributing role in the observed association between high management confidence and biased financial reporting.

Keywords: Management Confidence; Inquiry Evidence; Auditor’s Response to Risk; Risk of Material Misstatement; Auditor Extent of Testing; Auditor-Client Interactions

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Joe, Jennifer R., Auditors’ Response to Management Confidence and Misstatement Risk (December 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2623537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2623537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit
AU Section , volume 316 Posted: 2002
U Anderson , L Koonce
Explanation as a method for evaluating client-suggested causes in analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 132 Posted: 1995
U Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The effects of source-competence information and its timing on auditors' performance of analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 148 Posted: 1994
L M Ascher , J S Efran
Use of paradoxical intention in a behavioral program for sleep onset insomnia
Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 550 Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
477
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,431
RANK
137,275
2 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies