Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fees, Auditor Choice and Stakeholder Influence: Evidence from a Family Firm Dominated Economy

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2015

Arifur Khan

Deakin University - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Mohammad Muttakin

Deakin University

Javed Siddiqui

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School; Manchester Business School

Date Written: June 29, 2015

Abstract

Despite the dominance of family-owned publicly listed companies in developing economies, prior research has paid relatively little attention to this area, and the socio-economic context of these countries has been mostly ignored. This study contributes to the accounting literature by providing empirical evidence of the effects of family control and ownership on audit pricing and auditor choice in a developing economy context. Using 1,058 firm-year observations of publicly listed companies in Bangladesh, where family firms are the most dominant form of public companies, we determine that in comparison with non-family firms, our sample family firms pay significantly lower audit fees and tend to choose lower quality auditors. However, for export oriented industries, family firms seem to pay significantly higher audit fees and recruit better quality auditors compared to non-family firms, indicating stakeholder power. Collectively, our findings have important implications for audit markets in emerging economies in which the sustainability of family firms is crucial for overall economic development.

Keywords: Family Control; Family Ownership; Audit Fees; Auditor Choice; Emerging Economy

JEL Classification: M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Arifur and Muttakin, Mohammad and Siddiqui, Javed and Siddiqui, Javed, Audit Fees, Auditor Choice and Stakeholder Influence: Evidence from a Family Firm Dominated Economy (June 29, 2015). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,370
RANK
255,505
9 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies