Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cross-Sectional Examination of Non-Big 4 Firms’ Reliability

Managerial Auditing Journal, Volume 30, Issue 6/7, pp. 633-656

24 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2015

Reginald Wilson

University of Southern Mississippi

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of service-related independence impairments on perceptions of local and regional non-Big 4 Firms’ financial reporting reliability. This study is motivated by recent public policy, which proposes that service-related independence impairments may improve financial reporting reliability.

Design/Methodology/Approach – Commercial lending officers respond to a within-subjects experiment. The variables of interest are client importance, expertise and their related interaction. These variables are regressed on the perceived reporting reliability of local and regional firms.

Findings – Client importance is positively and significantly associated with the lenders’ selection of non-Big 4 firms, which supports Taylor et al.’s (2003) assertions that service-related independence violations improve financial reporting reliability. However, client importance is negatively associated with regional firms.

Practical Implications – Client importance is significantly associated with regional firms only, which suggests that cross-sectional differences exist among non-Big 4 firms. The negative association between regional firms and client importance confirms Goldman and Barlev’s (1974) concerns that large firms are not exempt from client pressure. Client importance is also significantly (and positively) associated with lenders’ selection of the type of non-Big 4 firm to perform the engagement, which supports recent public policy’s proposal for joint attest and non-attest services (Exposure Draft for Statement for Accounting and Review Services No. 18).

Originality/Value – The study overcomes within-subjects design limitations to provide a natural environment to understand lending officers’ perceptions of non-Big 4 firms. The results continue to fill the void in the literature which examines cross-sectional differences in non-Big 4 firm quality.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Non-Big 4 Firms, Auditor Reliability, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Reginald, A Cross-Sectional Examination of Non-Big 4 Firms’ Reliability (2015). Managerial Auditing Journal, Volume 30, Issue 6/7, pp. 633-656, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
P Danos , J Eichenseher , D Holt
Specialized knowledge and its communication in auditing
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 109 Posted: 1989
Crossref
L E Deangelo
Auditor independence, 'low balling', and disclosure regulation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 127 Posted: 1981
Crossref
C L Deberg , S E Kaplan , K Pany
An examination of some relationships between nonaudit services and auditor change
Accounting Horizons , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 28 Posted: 1991
M L Defond , C Lennox
The effect of SOX on small auditor exits and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
RANK
649,413
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies