Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Auditor Reputation on Jurors’ Assessment of Auditor Liability in a Limited Liability Regime: Financially Important Nonpublic Clients

Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 15 Issue 1, pp. 23-39

17 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2015

Reginald Wilson

University of Southern Mississippi

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

AICPA Ethics Interpretation 501-8 permits the use of limitation of liability clauses in jurisdictions where they are allowed (AICPA 2013). This study advances Brandon and Mueller’s (2006) research to examine the impact of auditor reputation on jurors’ perceptions of auditor liability when the client is financially important. The results indicate an auditor’s reputation neither significantly impact jurors’ evaluation of auditor liability, nor does it significantly reduce the incidence of punitive damages assigned to the auditor. Surprisingly, auditors with a reputation for high quality are punished more harshly following an audit failure in the presence of a limitation of liability clause.

Keywords: Auditor Reputation, Auditor Independence, Limitation of Liability

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Reginald, The Impact of Auditor Reputation on Jurors’ Assessment of Auditor Liability in a Limited Liability Regime: Financially Important Nonpublic Clients (2015). Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 15 Issue 1, pp. 23-39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
AICPA's code of professional conduct Posted: 2013-06-06
M C Anderson , R J Maccoun
Goal conflict in juror assessments of compensatory and punitive damages
Law and Human Behavior , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 313 - 330 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Anderson , J Wolfe
A perspective on audit malpractice claims
Journal of Accountancy , volume 194 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 66 Posted: 2002
A Bandura
Social Foundations of Thought and Action: A Social Cognitive Theory Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
478,514
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies