Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Consideration of Literature on Trust and Distrust as They Relate to Auditor Professional Scepticism

31 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2015

Noel Harding

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Mohammad Azim

North South University

Radzi Jidin

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Janine Muir

Swinburne University of Technology

Date Written: June 2015

Abstract

With a view to expanding the discussion on professional scepticism, and motivating a broader perspective in research undertaken with the aim of helping auditors meet ongoing demands for an elevated level of professional scepticism, we consider the literature on trust and distrust as it relates to auditor professional scepticism. We draw on literature from a range of disciplines, highlights new opportunities and previously unidentified challenges in helping auditors exercise an elevated level of professional scepticism. We distinguish between trust and distrust and note that the issue of professional scepticism is likely to be as much about auditors being insufficiently distrusting as it is about auditors being overly trusting. A number of potentially fruitful means by which professional scepticism might be enhanced are highlighted but we also encourage caution in that lower levels of trust in management, and increased distrust in management, may have unintended negative consequences.

Keywords: Professional scepicism; trust; distrust

Suggested Citation:

Harding, Noel and Azim, Mohammad and Jidin, Radzi and Muir, Janine, A Consideration of Literature on Trust and Distrust as They Relate to Auditor Professional Scepticism (June 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2627545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2627545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Posted: 2014-12
Australian inspection program report for 2012-13 Available at , volume 397 Posted: 2014-06-27
Crossref
R Bachmann , D Knights , J Sydow
Editorial -Trust and Control in Organizational Relations
Organizational Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. v - viii Posted: 2001
D Balliet , P A M Van Lange
Trust, conflict and cooperation: A meta-analysis
Psychological Bulletin , volume 139 , issue 5 , p. 1090 - 1112 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kris Hardies , Sanne Janssen , Ann Vanstraelen , Karla M. Zehms
Using Field-Based Evidence to Understand the Antecedents to Auditors’ Skeptical Actions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory · 66 Pages · Posted: 29 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 923
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,356
RANK
303,670
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies