Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence About the Relationship between External Auditing and the Supervisory Board in the Republic of Croatia

Ekonomski pregled - Economic Review, Vol. 60, No. 1-2, pp. 3-27.

25 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2015

Boris Tušek

University of Zagreb - Faculty of Economics & Business

Davor Filipović

University of Zagreb, Faculty of Economics and Business

Ivana Pokrovac

University of Zagreb - Faculty of Economics & Business

Date Written: February 10, 2009

Abstract

Analyzing the impact of the audit committee on efficiency of external auditing and the supervisory board is the main focus of this paper. Based on the conducted empirical research, by way of surveying, the developed hypothesis, which states that the audit committee, as a subcommittee of the supervisory board, has a direct impact on higher efficiency of both external auditing, and the supervisory board, is being tested. Additionally, basic roles of the supervisory board and the audit committee, and theoretically relevant and methodological aspects of external auditing will also be analyzed.

Keywords: supervisory board, audit committee, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M42, G38

Suggested Citation:

Tušek, Boris and Filipović, Davor and Pokrovac, Ivana, Empirical Evidence About the Relationship between External Auditing and the Supervisory Board in the Republic of Croatia (February 10, 2009). Ekonomski pregled - Economic Review, Vol. 60, No. 1-2, pp. 3-27., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Nova D.O.O. Rijeka
Istina d.o.o. Kaštel Stari, Kalibović i partneri d.o.o. Split, Kopun revizije d
List D O O Zagreb , Split
Nivo revizija d.o.o. Dubrovnik, PricewaterhouseCoopers d.o.o. Zagreb, Refi nal d.o.o. Dubrovnik, Remira d.o.o. Zagreb, Revicon d.o.o. Zadar, Revizija bat d.o.o. Dugi Rat, Revizija uzor d.o.o. Zagreb, Revizija Zagreb d.o.o. Zagreb, SD Nika d
Members of the management and the supervisory boards which participated in the conducted survey work in the following publicly traded companies: Agrokor d.d. Zagreb
Crossref
Pismorad D D Rijeka , Zagreb
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,378
RANK
906,353
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies