Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Recent Academic Research Support Changes to Audit Reporting Standards?

Accounting Horizons, January 2016

Posted: 18 Jul 2015 Last revised: 30 Jan 2016

Jean Bédard

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Paul Coram

University of Adelaide - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Reza Espahbodi

Ball State University

Theodore J. Mock

University of Southern California; University of California, Riverside

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) and UK Financial Reporting Council (FRC) have proposed or approved standards that significantly change the independent auditor’s report. These initiatives require the auditor to make additional disclosures intended to close the information gap, that is the gap between the information users desire and that that is available through the audited financial statements, other corporate disclosures, and the auditor‘s report. They are also intended to improve the relevancy of the auditor’s report.

We augment prior academic research by providing standard setters with an updated synthesis of relevant research. More importantly, we provide an assessment of whether the changes are likely to close the information gap, which is important to financial market participants and other stakeholders in the audit reporting process. Also, we identify areas where there seems to be a lack of sufficient research.

These results are of interest to all stakeholders in the audit reporting process as the changes to the auditor’s report are fundamental. Additionally, our summaries of research on the auditor’s report highlight where there is limited research or inconsistent results, which will help academics identify important opportunities for future research.

Keywords: auditor report, audit reporting model, PCAOB, IIASB

JEL Classification: G38, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bédard, Jean and Coram, Paul J. and Espahbodi, Reza and Mock, Theodore J. and Mock, Theodore J., Does Recent Academic Research Support Changes to Audit Reporting Standards?. Accounting Horizons, January 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2631676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2631676
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies