Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Quality and Debt Covenants

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2015 Last revised: 28 Aug 2015

Ashok Robin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - E. Philip Saunders College of Business

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: July 21, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the impact of auditor quality on debt covenants. We conjecture that high-quality auditors have two related effects on debt covenants: (i) they encourage fewer and less restrictive covenants by providing assurance to lenders at contract inception and, consequently, (ii) they ensure a lower probability of eventual covenant violations. Consistent with the conjectures, we find that auditor quality is negatively associated with the intensity and tightness of covenants when debt contracts are initiated. Additionally, we find that auditor quality is negatively associated with the likelihood of covenant violations. In an ancillary test, we provide evidence that high-quality auditors mitigate the detrimental effect of covenant violations on the cost of borrowing. Together, these findings highlight the important role of auditors in debt contracting.

Keywords: Debt covenants; Auditor quality; Covenant violations

JEL Classification: G32; M42

Suggested Citation:

Robin, Ashok and Wu, Qiang and Zhang, Hao, Auditor Quality and Debt Covenants (July 21, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2634273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Chaney
The results indicate that both instrumental variables are significantly and positively related to auditor quality variables. The results also indicate that firms with larger size, lower leverage, and lower Z-score are more likely to choose high-quality auditors
These results are largely consistent with those reported in previous studies Posted: 2004
2). Specifically, we estimate the probability that a firm will switch to a high-quality auditor by regressing Dummy (Change to Big N) or Dummy (Change to Experts) on the changes in the set of independent variables we used earlier in the auditor quality selection model. For brevity, we do not report this estimation
Please note that we modify our selection model in the auditor-change tests
Lennox
we conduct sensitivity analysis on the first-step model specification. In an alternative model, we include several additional independent variables (e.g., asset growth, stock return volatility, and a dummy capturing litigation risk). We find that our main findings are robust to this sensitivity test Posted: 2012
Load more
5 Citations
Carolyn M. Callahan , Gary F. Peters , Joseph Zhang
Debt Contract Strictness and Auditor Specialization
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 46, Issue 5-6, pp. 686-711, 2019 · 26 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 8
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mahfuz Chy , Gus De Franco , Barbara Su
The Effect of Auditor Litigation Risk on Client Access to Bank Debt: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment
Journal of Accounting &amp; Economics · 63 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 2 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 534
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mahfuz Chy , Hoyoun Kyung
The Effect of Bond Market Transparency on Bank Loan Contracting
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 20 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 248
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vlad-Andrei Porumb , Yasemin Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu , Gerald J. Lobo , Reggy Hooghiemstra , Dick De Waard
Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting
66 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 13 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 947
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,555
RANK
172,550
5 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies