Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Quality Effects of Small Audit Firm Mergers in the United States

Forthcoming. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory

53 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2015 Last revised: 18 Jul 2022

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Kecia Smith

North Carolina A&T State University

Dechun Wang

Texas A&M University

Devin Williams

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

Increased audit regulation, coupled with reports of frequent mergers among smaller audit firms, creates a dynamic environment in which to assess changes in the U.S. audit market. We examine the audit quality consequences of audit firm mergers between small audit firms that audit public clients, a topic about which little is known. Using a sample of small audit firms each involved in a single merger during 2004-2016, we find consistent evidence that post-merger audit quality decreases when PCAOB-identified audit deficiencies and audit fees are used as proxies for audit quality. In addition, we find weak evidence of lower post-merger audit quality when examining discretionary accruals, and no conclusive post-merger audit quality effect for the probability of misstatements. Overall, our findings provide evidence regarding the audit quality consequences of some small audit firm mergers in the United States.

Keywords: Mergers, public company audit market, audit quality, audit regulation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Smith, Kecia and Wang, Dechun and Williams, Devin, The Audit Quality Effects of Small Audit Firm Mergers in the United States (July 15, 2022). Forthcoming. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2635605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , G N Mandelker
The post-merger performance of acquiring firms: A reexamination of an anomaly
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1605 - 1621 Posted: 1992
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
N M Ashkanasy , S Holmes
Perceptions of organizational ideology following merger: A longitudinal study of merging accounting firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 34 Posted: 1995
G S Bae , S U Choi , P T Lamoreaux , J E Lee
Auditors' fee premiums and lowquality internal controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 620 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
894
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,214
RANK
61,132
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies