Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Going Concern Opinion and the Adverse Credit Rating: An Analysis of Their Relationship

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2015

Matthew Strickett

University of Auckland

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 10, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between going concern opinions issued by the Big 4 audit firms and adverse credit ratings from the two largest credit ratings agencies (CRAs), Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s. The paper focuses on audit opinions and credit ratings of firms that later file for bankruptcy. The relationship is examined from both sides. We examine whether credit ratings inform auditors in the making of going-concern (GC) audit opinion decisions, and whether GC opinions have an impact on a firm’s credit ratings. The analysis is undertaken on a sample of firms that filed for bankruptcy between the 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2013 that also had an audit opinion signed during the 12 months before bankruptcy, along with a credit rating issued by either or both, S&P and Moody’s. The results show that the likelihood of an auditor issuing a GC opinion is related to the credit rating issued the month before by both S&P and Moody’s. Results also show that S&P reacted in the month after an auditor issued a GC opinion by downgrading its ratings 68% of the time. However, Moody’s did not react in the same way, downgrading their ratings only 24% of the time. This paper sheds light on the relationship between audit opinions and credit ratings in relation to distressed companies. This is useful to better understand the wider relationship between auditors and credit rating agencies, and to be able to consider the future of these services.

Keywords: auditing; audit firms; going concern opinions; credit ratings

JEL Classification: G29, G33, L11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Strickett, Matthew and Hay, David, The Going Concern Opinion and the Adverse Credit Rating: An Analysis of Their Relationship (July 10, 2015). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2635960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
C Alessi , R Wolverson , M Aly Sergie
The Credit Rating Controversy. Council on Foreign Relations Posted: 2013
E I Altman , M L Heine
Predicting Financial Distress of Companies: Revisiting the Z-score and ZETA models. Stern School of Business Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of Corporate Governance on firms' Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
AU Section 341 -The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,803
RANK
183,013
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies