Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

46 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2015 Last revised: 2 Aug 2017

Kathleen A. Bentley-Goode

The University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: August 16, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether a company’s business strategy is an underlying determinant of the strength of its internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) and the quality of auditors’ attestation reports concerning ICFR. Organizational theory suggests that companies following an innovative “prospector” strategy are likely to have weaker internal controls than companies following an efficient “defender” strategy. Consistent with theory, we find that firms with greater prospector-like characteristics are more likely to report and less likely to remediate material weaknesses, incremental to known determinants of material weaknesses. We also find that auditors’ internal control reporting quality is lower among clients with greater prospector-like characteristics when measured using the timeliness of reported material weaknesses. Our findings indicate that business strategy is a useful summary indicator for evaluating companies’ internal control strength and suggest that internal control reporting is an important area for audit quality improvement among prospector-like clients.

Keywords: business strategy, internal control, material weakness, Sarbanes-Oxley, Auditing Standard No. 5

JEL Classification: D21, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Goode, Kathleen Ann Bentley and Newton, Nathan J. and Thompson, Anne, Business Strategy and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (August 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2637688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2637688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Agbejule , A Jokipii
Strategy, control activities, monitoring and effectiveness
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 500 - 522 Posted: 2009
Crossref
AU Section 311: Planning and Supervision
AICPA Posted: 2006
S K Asare , B C Fitzgerald , L E Graham , J R Joe , E M Negangard , C J Wolfe
Auditors' internal control over financial reporting decisions: Analysis, synthesis, and research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Suham Cahyono , Iman Harymawan , Hadrian Geri Djajadikerta , Abu Hanifa Md. Noman
Corporate business strategy, CEO's managerial ability, and environmental disclosure: The perspective of stakeholder theory
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 33 , issue 8 , p. 8149 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Manuel De la Garza , Mariana Zerón , Guadalupe Briano-Turrent
Comportamiento estratégico de las empresas Zombis en México
European Journal of Family Business , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 51 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ali A. Alnodel , Naser Khlaifah , Hussein M. Elnafabi
Evaluating the quality of services provided by the financial controller in governmental organizations: Using the SERVPERF model
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 123 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Weidong Xu , Yijie Chen , Xin Gao , Yi Wang
Business strategy and stock price crash risk: international evidence
Applied Economics , volume 55 , issue 10 , p. 1098 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,677
RANK
48,904
5 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies