Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Role and the Conflicting Effects of Audit Committee Quality on Auditor Conservatism

44 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2015

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Linda S. McDaniel

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Robert J. Ramsay

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Date Written: July 28, 2015

Abstract

We examine the effect of Audit Committee (AC) quality on auditor conservatism from two perspectives that may be held by the auditors. The first perspective is that enhanced AC quality lowers audit risk, which allows auditors to be less aggressive when insisting on recording adjusting entries – resulting in smaller, less conservative audit adjustments. The second perspective is that high quality ACs are more independent of management and more supportive of auditors, which allows auditors to be more aggressive in negotiations with management – resulting in larger, more conservative audit adjustments. We find that senior managers appear to hold the first perspective and become more likely to waive adjusting entries under high-quality ACs. Partners appear to hold the second perspective and become less likely to waive adjusting entries under high-quality ACs. We attribute this difference in perspective to the different audit roles partners and senior managers play when considering and interacting with the audit committee.

Keywords: Auditor role, audit committee, audit adjustment, audit negotiation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Doxey, Marcus M and McDaniel, Linda S. and Ramsay, Robert J., Auditor Role and the Conflicting Effects of Audit Committee Quality on Auditor Conservatism (July 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2637025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2637025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi
Factors affecting auditors' perceptions of applicable decision aids for various audit tasks
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 535 - 548 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C Agoglia , R Hatfield , T Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective Posted: 2015
Crossref
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
424
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,448
RANK
157,700
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies