Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Fees Reflect Unique Characteristics of Individual Executives?

Accounting Horizons (forthcoming)

Posted: 5 Aug 2015 Last revised: 23 Jul 2020

John Lauck

Louisiana Tech University - School of Accounting & Information Systems

Joseph Rakestraw

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Date Written: May 14, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether audit fees reflect characteristics of individual executives incremental to known determinants of fees. Using a novel executive effects approach, we find that unexplained audit fees exhibit a statistically and economically significant association with executive effects after controlling for factors related to the firm and environment. Specifically, executive effects represent between 20 and 39 percent of the total variation in unexplained audit fees. Our tests also show only limited evidence that observable proxies are associated with the auditor’s perception of an executive’s style, which suggests that our analysis identifies unobservable traits that cannot be captured by typical measures in archival research (e.g., gender, age, educational background, and board membership). Collectively, our study highlights the importance of executive characteristics in the determination of audit fees and suggests that future research may benefit from additional consideration of individual executives’ influence on the pricing of audit services.

Keywords: executive fixed effects; group connection; audit pricing; unexplained audit fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lauck, John and Rakestraw, Joseph and Stein, Sarah E., Do Audit Fees Reflect Unique Characteristics of Individual Executives? (May 14, 2020). Accounting Horizons (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2639777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2639777
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies