Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Stress on Auditors' Organizational Commitment, Job Satisfaction, and Job Performance

International Journal of Organizational Leadership 4 (2015) 303-314

12 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2015

Abolghasem Masihabadi

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Alireza Rajaei

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Amir Shams Koloukhi

Islamic Azad University - Young Researchers and Elites Club

Dr.Hossein Parsian

Plan and Budget organization of Iran

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 6, 2015

Abstract

This study was designed to measure the effects of job stress on organizational commitment, job satisfaction, and job performance. A total of 170 questionnaires were distributed among auditors in the audit institutions in Tehran and Mashhad. To test the hypotheses, path analysis and structural equation and regression were employed. The results showed that the job stress had a negative effect on organizational commitment and job satisfaction and there was not a negative correlation between job stress and job performance. Job stress via organizational commitment and job satisfaction affected job performance negatively. Also, job stress had a negative impact on job satisfaction via organizational commitment.

Keywords: Job Stress, Job Satisfaction, Job Performance, Organizational Commitment

JEL Classification: M42, C83

Suggested Citation:

Masihabadi, Abolghasem and Rajaei, Alireza and Shams Koloukhi, Amir and Parsian, Hossein, Effects of Stress on Auditors' Organizational Commitment, Job Satisfaction, and Job Performance (August 6, 2015). International Journal of Organizational Leadership 4 (2015) 303-314, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2641246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
H L Angle , J L Perry
An empirical assessment of organizational commitment and organizational effectiveness
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 1981
Crossref
A C A Bluedorn
Unified model of turnover from organization. Human Relation , volume 35 , p. 135 - 153 Posted: 1982
Crossref
S H Chan , H H Qiu
Loneliness, job satisfaction, and organizational commitment of migrant workers: Empirical evidence from China
The International Journal of Human Resource Management , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 1109 - 1127 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C I Chu , M S Lee , H M Hsu
The impact of social support and job stress on public health nurses' organizational citizenship behaviors in rural Taiwan
Public Health Nursing , volume 23 , p. 496 - 505 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,754
RANK
29,923
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies