Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big 4 Auditor Affiliation and Accruals Quality in Bangladesh

M. Humayun Kabir, Divesh Sharma, Md Ainul Islam, Amirus Salat, (2011), "Big 4 auditor affiliation and accruals quality in Bangladesh", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 26 Iss: 2 pp. 161-181

1 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2015

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Ainul Islam

Victoria University of Welington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Amirus Salat

University of Dhaka

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Purpose – Bangladesh is an emerging economy and international audit firms operate there through affiliated local audit firms. The Bangladesh audit market can be characterized as an intensely competitive small audit market with relatively poor demand for high‐audit quality. In addition, Bangladesh has a relatively small and under developed but growing capital market that is characterized by poor corporate regulation and weak investor protection. The purpose of this paper is to examine the association between Big 4 affiliated auditors and accruals quality in Bangladesh.

Design/Methodology/Approach – Following prior literature, this paper uses both absolute discretionary accruals and signed discretionary accruals as proxies of accruals quality. The sample is 382 firm‐year observations and covers fiscal years 2000‐2003.

Findings – It was found that the association between Big 4 affiliates and accruals quality in Bangladesh depends on measures of accruals quality and accruals models used. Overall, Big 4 affiliates do not have a positive impact on accruals quality of their clients in Bangladesh.

Originality/Value – This paper contributes to the literature on audit quality and accruals quality. The results potentially suggest that Big 4 affiliates do not have any positive impact on accruals quality of clients in an intensely competitive audit market where the demand for quality audit is poor and monitoring is lax and raise potential implications for policy makers and market participants in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Bangladesh, Audit quality, Accruals quality, Big 4 affiliates, Investor protection

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Sharma, Divesh Shankar and Islam, Ainul and Salat, Amirus, Big 4 Auditor Affiliation and Accruals Quality in Bangladesh (2011). M. Humayun Kabir, Divesh Sharma, Md Ainul Islam, Amirus Salat, (2011), "Big 4 auditor affiliation and accruals quality in Bangladesh", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 26 Iss: 2 pp. 161-181, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2641739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,146
RANK
605,632
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies