Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditee Characteristics and Audit Fees: An Analysis of Nigerian Quoted Companies

Aronmwan, E. J., & Okafor, C. A. (2015). Auditee characteristics and audit fees: An analysis of Nigerian quoted companies. Journal of Social and Management Sciences, 10(2), 68-79

17 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2015

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Chinwuba Okafor

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

This study investigated auditee characteristics and audit fees in Nigerian quoted companies. Data for the study was gotten from the annual reports of 35 companies for a 6 year period (2005-2010). The longitudinal survey research design was employed in the study, while the multivariate regression model was used to analyse the relationship between audit fees and auditee characteristics. The study found that at the 5% significance level, auditee size has a significant positive relationship with audit fees, client profitability has an insignificant negative relationship with audit fees, the auditee’s choice of auditor has a significant negative association with audit fees, industry type has an insignificant positive relationship with audit fees, and client’s business risk has a positive relationship with audit fees. Based on the findings, the study recommends that large companies should set up strong internal control system that may be relied upon by the auditor to reduce audit effort and invariably reduce audit fees and that management should on it part reduce the riskiness of their business by using corporate governance mechanism such as audit committee and an effective internal audit department.

Keywords: Auditee Characteristics; Audit Fees; Nigerian Quoted Companies

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Aronmwan, Edosa and Okafor, Chinwuba, Auditee Characteristics and Audit Fees: An Analysis of Nigerian Quoted Companies (May 12, 2014). Aronmwan, E. J., & Okafor, C. A. (2015). Auditee characteristics and audit fees: An analysis of Nigerian quoted companies. Journal of Social and Management Sciences, 10(2), 68-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K Ahmed , M K Goyal
A comparative study of pricing of audit services in emerging economies
International Journal of Auditing , volume 9 , p. 103 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Al-Gammal
Determinants of audit fees: Evidence from Lebanon
International Business Research , volume 5 , issue 11 , p. 136 - 145 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S M Amba , F K Al-Hajere
Determinants of audit fees in Bahrain: An empirical study
Journal of Finance and Accountancy , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2012
Code of Professional Conduct
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,115
RANK
183,013
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies