Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality in the Nigerian-Banking Sector

Omoye, A. S., & Aronmwan, E. J. (2013). Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality in the Nigerian Banking Sector. Benin Journal of Social Sciences, 21(2), 34-43

16 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2015

Alade Omoye

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: Novermber 12, 2013

Abstract

This study examines audit firm rotation and audit quality using cross-sectional pool data gathered from 15 banks in the Nigerian-banking sector for the period 2005-2011. The binary logit regression model was used to test the hypothesis raised. The study found that audit firm rotation significantly affects audit quality although the effect is negative. Consequently, the study recommends that regulatory organs should think of other ways to address concerns about audit quality aside mandatory audit rotation, as this does not necessarily promote quality audit.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Firm Rotation, Banking Sector

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Omoye, Alade and Aronmwan, Edosa, Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality in the Nigerian-Banking Sector (Novermber 12, 2013). Omoye, A. S., & Aronmwan, E. J. (2013). Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality in the Nigerian Banking Sector. Benin Journal of Social Sciences, 21(2), 34-43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R G Brody , S A Moscove
Mandatory auditor rotation , p. 32 - 36 Posted: 1998-05
M Cameran , A Prencipe , M Trombetta
Earnings management, audit tenure and auditor changes: Does mandatory auditor rotation improve audit quality? Posted: 2007
W Chi , H Huang , Y Liao , H Xie
Mandatory audit-partner rotation, audit quality and market perception: Evidence from Taiwan
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 391 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Larry R. Davis , Billy S. Soo , Gregory M. Trompeter
Auditor Tenure and the Ability to Meet or Beat Earnings Forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming Pages: 52 Posted: 17 Sep 2007 Last revised: 29 Oct 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
275,235
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies