Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Reputation and Audit Quality

Aronmwan, E. J., Ashafoke, T. O., & Mgbame, C. O. (2013). Audit firm reputation and audit quality. European Journal of Business and Management, 5(7), 66-75.

10 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2015

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Tina Ashafoke

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Chijioke Mgbame

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 12, 2013

Abstract

The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship between audit firm reputation and audit quality using a sample of listed companies trading on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The Ordinary Least Square Model estimation technique was used to analyze the relationship between the audit firm reputation and audit quality. Our findings showed that there is a positive significant relationship between audit firm reputation and audit quality. The control variables examined alongside audit firm reputation revealed that aside audit committee size; all other variables so examined have a positive relationship with audit quality. We therefore recommend that companies should employ the services of audit firms with proven track record of audit quality and reputation.

Keywords: Audit quality, Audit firm reputation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Aronmwan, Edosa and Ashafoke, Tina and Mgbame, Chijioke, Audit Firm Reputation and Audit Quality (July 12, 2013). Aronmwan, E. J., Ashafoke, T. O., & Mgbame, C. O. (2013). Audit firm reputation and audit quality. European Journal of Business and Management, 5(7), 66-75., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
S B Adeyemi , T O &amp;fagbemi
Audit quality, corporate governance and firm characteristics in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2010
Crossref
AICPA, 1992): Statement of Position: Regarding Mandatory Rotation of Audit Firms of Publicly Held Companies
Benito Arruñada
Audit Quality: Attributes, Private Safeguards and the Role of Regulation
The European Accounting Review, 2000, 9(2), 205-224 Pages: 24 Posted: 19 Jun 2000 Last revised: 23 Jul 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Barzegar , M &amp;salehi
Re-emerging of agency problem: Evidences from practicing non-audit services by independent auditors
Journal of Audit Practice , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 66 Posted: 2008
Load more
2 Citations
Slobodan Kacanski , Dean Lusher , Peng Wang
Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms – A Multilevel Network Approach
Kacanski, S., Lusher, D., Wang, P., Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms - A Multilevel Network Approach. European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 27 Pages · Posted: 31 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ammar Qadir Sheikh , Danish Ahmed Siddiqui
Impact of Audit Fees and Audit Firm’s Reputation on Audit Quality: Evidence from Listed Companies from Pakistan
29 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 20 May 2022 · Downloads: 978
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,336
RANK
28,012
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies