Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Section 201 of SOX on Auditor Independence

22 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: August 13, 2015

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the impact of Section 201 of SOX on auditor independence through audit fees and audit opinions. This study also identifies the difference of audit opinions before and after SOX, which may signal an increase in auditor independence. Results show that after introduction of Section 201 of SOX, audit firms are charging higher audit fees than before and the auditors now can audit with more independence because they do not have to think of getting the contract of non-audit services. Before the introduction of Section 201 of SOX, the auditors used to issue unqualified audit opinion, as they were obligated to the client. After the introduction of Section 201 of SOX, the auditors are still issuing unqualified audit opinion but at the same time they are pointing out some additional observations based on financial statements, which clearly shows that the auditors are more independent now.

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md, Impact of Section 201 of SOX on Auditor Independence (August 13, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2643825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B Arruanda
The provision of non-audit services by auditors: Let the market evolve and decide international
Review of Law and Economics , volume 19 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Asthanna , S Balsam , S Kim
The effect of Enron, Andersen, and Sarbanes-Oxley on the US market for audit services , volume 22 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Barkess , R Simnett
Accounting and Business Research
The Provision of Other Services by Auditors: Independence and Pricing Issues , volume 24 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
407,466
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies