Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Auditor Report Changes on Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Costs: Evidence from the United Kingdom

53 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2015 Last revised: 28 May 2018

Lauren C. Reid

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Terry L. Neal

University of Tennessee

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 19, 2018

Abstract

While substantial revisions to auditor reporting requirements are being implemented internationally, the impact of these reforms on financial reporting quality is unknown. We exploit the United Kingdom’s recent auditor reporting changes and find that the U.K.’s new reporting regime is associated with an improvement in financial reporting quality as proxied by significant decreases in absolute abnormal accruals and the propensity to just meet or beat analyst forecasts, and a significant increase in earnings response coefficients. As for audit costs, we do not find a significant change in audit fees or audit delay surrounding the implementation of the new reporting regime. Taken together, the results of this study suggest that new auditor reporting requirements are associated with a significant improvement in financial reporting quality without detecting a significant increase in audit costs.

Keywords: audit report changes; PCAOB; United Kingdom; financial reporting quality; audit costs

Suggested Citation:

Reid, Lauren C. and Carcello, Joseph V. and Li, Chan and Neal, Terry L., Impact of Auditor Report Changes on Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Costs: Evidence from the United Kingdom (May 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2647507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2647507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Assistance and External Audit Timeliness
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
W Baber , J Krishnan , Y Zhang
Investor perceptions of the earnings quality consequences of hiring an affiliated auditor
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 102 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,240
RANK
7,326
26 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies