Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry-Specialist Audit Fee Premium and Financial Statement Complexity

46 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2015

Dichu Bao

Lingnan University

Rebecca Files

Baylor University

Suresh Radhakrishnan

JSOM, University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: August 20, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether the industry-specialist audit fee premium and scale discounts are attributable to financial statement complexity. Financial statement complexity is measured using a combination of the number of Arabic numerals, the number of words, and the readability of 10-K financial statement footnotes. We find that specialist auditors charge a premium for clients with higher financial statement complexity and, correspondingly, offer scale economy discounts to these clients as well. Interestingly, even though non-specialist auditors charge a higher fee for clients with higher financial statement complexity, they do not offer scale economy discounts to these clients. We also show that a client’s financial statement complexity is distinct from its operational complexity. Collectively, our results suggest that the industry-specialist auditors’ premium is attributable to auditors’ investment in resources to handle client complexity, and not monopoly rent or compensation for audit risk.

Keywords: client complexity, specialist premium, scale economy discount, audit pricing

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Dichu and Files, Rebecca and Radhakrishnan, Suresh, Industry-Specialist Audit Fee Premium and Financial Statement Complexity (August 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2648745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2648745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K L Bills , D C Jeter , S E Stein
Auditor industry specilization and evidence of cost efficiencies in homogenous industries
The Accounting Review Posted: 2014
Crossref
T D Cairney , G R Young
Homogenous industries and auditor specialization: An indication of production economies
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 67 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Carson , N Fargher
Note on audit fee premiums to client size and industry specialization
Accounting and Finance , volume 47 , p. 423 - 446 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,397
RANK
233,376
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies