Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Effect of Auditor Tenure on Audit Quality: Methods and Implications

Posted: 25 Aug 2015

Junwei Peng

Southwest University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: August 24, 2014

Abstract

After several major financial scandals, mandatory auditor rotation was raised as a measure to improve the auditor independence. For regulators who are to set mandatory rotation limit need detailed information about the turning points of the inverted U-shaped relationship between audit quality and auditor tenure, such as the statistical implication of a representative turning point of audit quality obtained by OLS estimation based on quadratic model or even the entire distribution of the sample firm-auditors’ turning points. These two problems remain unsolved.

This paper derived the statistical implication of the representative turning point of audit quality obtained by OLS estimation based on quadratic model. This paper also proposed an estimation method based on survival analysis to estimate the entire distribution curve for the turning points of all the sample firm-auditors in the form of their cumulative probability curve. Mote Carlo simulation was used to the performance of various estimation methods, such as accuracy, robustness, and information usefulness.

Keywords: Auditor Tenure; Mandatory Rotation; Quadratic Model; Survival Analysis

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Junwei, Estimating the Effect of Auditor Tenure on Audit Quality: Methods and Implications (August 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2649836
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies