Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Immigrants Complements or Substitutes? Evidence from the Audit Industry

Forthcoming, Management Science

37 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2015 Last revised: 22 Oct 2016

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Erqiu Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 18, 2016

Abstract

Extensive debate exists among policy makers and economists about the employment of highly skilled immigrants in the U.S. It remains unclear whether these immigrants perform complementary tasks in addition to their substitutive role relative to native graduates. Empirical studies examining these questions in a focused setting are scarce, principally because of nonavailability of data. We examine these questions using the audit industry as a setting because of availability of client, city, and office characteristics data at each audit office. This setting also allows us to answer whether immigration can address the growing human capital constraint in the audit industry. We find evidence of a complementary role of highly skilled immigrants. In addition, our results indicate a reputational spillover of client restatements at the audit office level to the labor markets. Our findings have immigration and education policy implications.

Keywords: Immigration, H-1B; visa quotas; auditing; human capital, auditing; restatements; reputation

JEL Classification: J15; J24; J61; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Srivastava, Anup and Wang, Erqiu, Are Immigrants Complements or Substitutes? Evidence from the Audit Industry (October 18, 2016). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2651328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2651328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Aicpa
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2013
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Annisette
The colour of accountancy: Examining the salience of 'race' in a professionalisation project
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 28 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 639 - 674 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Daniel Aobdia
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming Pages: 74 Posted: 12 Jul 2015 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,624
RANK
108,311
13 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies