Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Client Performance

Posted: 3 Sep 2015

Sun Min Kang

Independent

Date Written: August 27, 2015

Abstract

In 2014, the EU adopted a bill limiting the non-audit services of auditors, reflecting societal concern that non-audit services provided by auditors can compromise auditor independence. But different from the expectation that the provision of non-audit services by external auditors affects auditor independence, previous studies have shown inconsistent results. What could be the reason? Contracts for non-audit services start from the purchase motive of the company with a need for non-audit services (Firth, 1997; Parkash and Venable, 1993). Simunic (1984) argued that only abnormal companies with special problems purchase non-audit services. However, not all non-audit services sales compromise auditor independence. This study analyzed and illustrated whether the purchase of non-audit services affects auditor independence by the examining the interaction between the performance of audit clients with earnings management incentives and the quasi-rents of the auditor. The results show that the discretionary accruals of corporations with poor management performance increased with statistical significance when they purchased non-audit services from an external auditor. However, among companies with excellent management results, no statistical significance between the purchase of non-audit services and discretionary accruals was identified. Thus, to analyze the effects of non-audit services on auditor independence, researchers should consider the purchase motives of audit clients asking for non-audit services.

Keywords: Performance; Non-audit Services; Auditor Independence; Accruals; Earnings Management Incentive

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Sun Min, Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Client Performance (August 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2652192
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies