Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Clients Successfully Engage in Opinion Shopping? Partner-Level Evidence

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2015 Last revised: 3 Oct 2015

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Songlan (Stella) Peng

York University

Shuang Xue

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Feiteng Ye

Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 26, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates whether companies engage in audit opinion shopping activities by exerting influence over an audit firm’s decision to switch the engagement partner (“partner-level opinion shopping”) in the Chinese setting, where the identities of engagement partners are publicly disclosed. Adopting the empirical framework developed by Lennox (2000), we show evidence that companies successfully engage in partner-level opinion shopping. Further, partner-level opinion shopping is more likely to be successful if a company is economically important to an audit firm, and it is less likely to be successful if the audit firm is formed as a partnership rather than a corporation. We also find that companies successfully engaging in partner-level opinion shopping exhibit significantly lower earnings quality. Finally, we directly compare audit records between incoming and outgoing partners and find that, for companies that successfully improve audit opinions after partner switching, incoming partners have a significantly higher propensity to issue clean opinions than their outgoing counterparts.

Keywords: Opinion Shopping; Partner Switch; Audit Quality; Individual Auditor

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Peng, Songlan and Xue, Shuang and Yang, Zhifeng and Ye, Feiteng, Do Audit Clients Successfully Engage in Opinion Shopping? Partner-Level Evidence (August 26, 2015). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2652049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2652049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
D Alexander , G Burns , R Manor , F Mcroberts , E A Torriero
The fall of Anderson Posted: 2002-09-01
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Blouin , B M Grein , B R Roundtree
An analysis of forced auditor change: The case of former Arthur Andersen clients
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 621 - 650 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
527
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,920
RANK
121,705
15 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies