Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of Business Risk Audit Methodology within Non-Big-4 Firms

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 11, Issue 1, 2015

Posted: 2 Sep 2015

Imad Kutum

University of Jordan; Kutum & Associates Inc.

Ian A.M. Fraser

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: August 15, 2015

Abstract

Purpose:

We explore the application of the business risk audit (BRA) approach within non-Big-4 audit firms, in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. We focus on the motivation for adopting this approach for non-Big-4 audit firms in the three countries, and the advantages, disadvantages and aftermath of applying this method.

Design/methodology/approach:

We used a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods in order to obtain the data necessary to address the research questions.

Findings:

We find that that non-Big-4 audit firms in the three countries have adopted BRA; their motivation was primarily to follow the standards in each country, and the general trend in the industry. The advantages identified are consistent with previous research; a direct benefit was noted for audit effectiveness and risk management for both clients and auditors. One major disadvantage of applying BRA is the cost burden to both the audit firm and their clients. Some of the interviewees claimed that this method is better suited to large firms and large audits

Originality/value:

This is an innovative study that addresses a contemporary auditing issue. The majority of the audit research studies concentrate on the big audit firm practices; this study is the first to examine the application of audit practices within smaller audit firms.

Keywords: Business Risk Audit, Audit Methodology

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kutum, Imad and Fraser, Ian A.M. and Hussainey, Khaled, The Application of Business Risk Audit Methodology within Non-Big-4 Firms (August 15, 2015). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 11, Issue 1, 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654227
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies