Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Sharing in the Mutual Fund Industry: Empirical Evidence on Determinants and Audit Fees

50 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

John C. Adams

University of Texas at Arlington

Takeshi Nishikawa

University of Colorado at Denver

Stephanie J. Rasmussen

University of Texas at Arlington

Date Written: August 2015

Abstract

This study examines auditor sharing by mutual fund trusts (collections of mutual funds) and parents (administrators of fund operations). We examine the determinants of auditor sharing and whether an association exists between trust audit fees and auditor sharing. Employing a sample of 2,369 trust-year observations during 2005-2010, we find that auditor sharing is positively associated with proxies for parent accounting capabilities, trustee fund ownership, and the presence of trustees who are retired or former employees of the parent. Conversely, auditor sharing is less likely for trusts with larger boards, longer-tenured trustees, and longer auditor tenure. We find that trusts with shared auditors pay higher audit fees, suggesting either a premium for shared auditors’ specialized knowledge or additional audit effort to compensate for shareholders’ concerns about trustees’ monitoring. Our findings offer insights into the audits of mutual funds and have implications for trustees as they consider auditor appointments.

Keywords: Mutual funds, Audit fees, Accounting quality, Board characteristics

JEL Classification: G23, G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Adams, John C. and Nishikawa, Takeshi and Rasmussen, Stephanie J., Auditor Sharing in the Mutual Fund Industry: Empirical Evidence on Determinants and Audit Fees (August 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2654839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J Adams , S Mansi , T Nishikawa
Internal governance mechanisms and operational performance: Evidence from index mutual funds
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 1261 - 1286 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Cremers , J Driessen , P Maenhout , D Weinbaum
Does skin in the game matter? Director incentives and governance in the mutual fund industry
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 44 , p. 1345 - 1373 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P M Dechow , R G Sloan , A P Sweeney
Detecting earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 1995
C C Dee , A Lulseged , T Zhang
Who Did the Audit? Audit quality and disclosures of other audit participants in PCAOB filings. Forthcoming, The Accounting Review Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,618
RANK
263,504
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies