Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Risk Assessments: The Effects of Elicitation Approach and Assertion Framing

Behavioral Research in Accounting, No. 2, 2016, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Sep 2015 Last revised: 17 Oct 2015

Theodore J. Mock

University of Southern California; University of California, Riverside

Hironori Fukukawa

Hitotsubashi University - Graduate School of Commerce and Management

Date Written: September 3, 2015

Abstract

This experimental study replicates, using U.S. audit practitioners, Fukukawa and Mock (2011) who investigated the effects of probability-based vs. belief-based risk assessments and positive vs. negative assertions on auditor judgments. Most results are consistent with the prior study: (1) Significant differences between probability-based and belief-based risk assessments are observed. (2) Assessed risks are significantly higher and relatively more skeptical when negatively vs. positively stated assertions are provided. (3) When the belief-based assessments are transformed into probabilities using a method proposed by Cobb and Shenoy (2006) and compared with the probability-based risk assessments, the difference is not statistically significant.

Some results do not replicate, particularly when the risk assessments after audit evidence is provided are examined. However, in general, the U.S. results are more consistent with expectations. Overall, this study corroborates the key results of Fukukawa and Mock (2011).

Keywords: auditors’ risk assessment, belief functions, probability, assertion framing, skepticism

Suggested Citation:

Mock, Theodore J. and Mock, Theodore J. and Fukukawa, Hironori, Auditors’ Risk Assessments: The Effects of Elicitation Approach and Assertion Framing (September 3, 2015). Behavioral Research in Accounting, No. 2, 2016, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655503
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies