Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Covenant Violations, Firm Financial Distress, and Auditor Actions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2015

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Wei Yu

Hunter College - City University of New York

Date Written: September 8, 2015

Abstract

We conduct a comprehensive study on the associations between debt covenant violations (“violations”) and auditor actions for financially distressed and non-distressed firms. Our study is motivated by a lack of research on the consequences of violations resulting from auditors’ actions. We find that firms with violations have significantly higher audit fees, a greater likelihood of receiving a going concern opinion, and a greater likelihood of experiencing an auditor resignation. Importantly, the positive associations hold for all types of firms, including financially non-distressed firms. In fact, we find that, after controlling for other financial information, the relation between violations and an increased likelihood of a going concern opinion is stronger for non-distressed versus distressed firms. Our evidence is consistent with belief-revision research in auditing that finds auditors react more strongly to information that is inconsistent with their prior beliefs. This study provides further evidence on the indirect yet significant consequences of covenant violations on firms resulting from auditor actions.

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Krishnan, Gopal and Yu, Wei, Debt Covenant Violations, Firm Financial Distress, and Auditor Actions (September 8, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2657597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
D Amiram
Debt contracts, loss given default and accounting information. Working paper, Columbia University Posted: 2011
A A Arens , J L Loebbecke
Auditing: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2000
S K Asare
The auditor's going-concern opinion decision: Interaction of task variables and the sequential processing of evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 379 - 93 Posted: 1992-04
Load more
3 Citations
Huseyin Gulen , Candace Jens , Beau Page
Balancing external vs. internal validity: An application of causal forest in finance
93 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Last revised: 21 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 951
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kai G. Mertens , Ole Meßerschmidt , Matthias Meyer
Necessary Conditions in Empirical Accounting Research
41 Pages · Posted: 15 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 8 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 179
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luo He , Jingjing Zhang , Ligang Zhong
Creditor Monitoring and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Covenant Violations
47 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 365
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,142
RANK
164,343
3 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies