Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Statutory Auditors’ Independence in the Protection of Stakeholders’ Interest: A Perceptual Study

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XIV, No. 1, January 2015, pp. 40-67

Posted: 14 Sep 2015

Mitrendu Roy

Independent

Date Written: September 14, 2015

Abstract

An audited financial statement is considered to be authentic and reliable by the stakeholders. Therefore, statutory auditors play an important role in protecting stakeholders’ interest in a company. Thus, statutory auditors should be independent from their audit client. However, in recent corporate accounting scandals, a company’s demise resulted in disastrous consequences for its stakeholders and audit failure was diagnosed to be one of the reasons behind those scandals. In this backdrop, based on existing literature, this paper attempts to identify a few issues that positively or negatively affect statutory auditors’ independence in their professional engagement. Opinion of statutory auditors and select groups of respondents from other related occupations on these variables have been collected and duly analyzed. Homogeneity in the opinion of select respondent groups has also been tested using Chi-Square Test of Homogeneity. Finally, the important findings of the study are summarized and a suitable conclusion on statutory auditors’ independence is drawn.

Suggested Citation:

Roy, Mitrendu, Statutory Auditors’ Independence in the Protection of Stakeholders’ Interest: A Perceptual Study (September 14, 2015). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XIV, No. 1, January 2015, pp. 40-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2660024
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
876
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies