Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Current State and Future Direction of IT Audit: Challenges and Opportunities

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Sep 2015 Last revised: 12 Oct 2015

Ann C. Dzuranin

Northern Illinois University

Irina Mălăescu

University of Central Florida

Date Written: August 15, 2015

Abstract

Embracing the spirit of the Pathways Commission’s focus of enhancing the value of practitioner/educator exchanges, the inaugural Journal of Information Systems (JISC) conference brought together 30 academic researchers and 15 practitioners to discuss the current state and the future direction of Information Technology (IT) audit research and practice. Panelists, comprised of practitioners from government, public accounting, and industry, provided insight into current IT audit issues. The first panel discussed the role of IT auditors in helping organizations meet compliance requirements and insuring that information systems add value to the organization. The second panel addressed the future of IT audit in a world of advanced analytics and emerging technologies. Although the panels addressed separate topics, common themes emerged from the discussions. Issues facing the IT Audit profession as a result of the increasing volume of data available, coupled with changing technology and increasing regulatory requirements, underscored much of the discussion. Big data, compliance, and emerging technology issues were addressed from both internal audit and external audit perspectives. This commentary provides a review and synthesis of the information presented during panel discussions at the conference and suggests potential research questions.

Keywords: IT audit, IT audit analytics, audit data standards, IT compliance, emerging technology

Suggested Citation:

Dzuranin, Ann C. and Mălăescu, Irina, The Current State and Future Direction of IT Audit: Challenges and Opportunities (August 15, 2015). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2663167
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies