Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Choice and Its Implications for Group-Affiliated Firms

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2015

Junxiong Fang

Fudan University - School of Management

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: September 21, 2015

Abstract

We examine which of two opposing financial reporting incentives that group-affiliated firms experience shapes their accounting transparency evident in auditor choice. In one direction, complex group structure and intra-group transactions enable controlling shareholders to pursue diversionary activities that they later hide by distorting reported earnings. In the other direction, as outside investors price protect against potential expropriation, controlling shareholders may be eager to improve financial reporting quality in order to alleviate agency costs. To empirically clarify whether group affiliation affects company insiders’ incentives to address minority shareholders’ concerns over agency costs, we examine auditor selection of group firms relative to stand-alone firms. In comparison to non-group firms, our evidence implies that group firms are more likely to appoint Top 10 audit firms in China, especially when their controlling shareholders have stronger incentives to improve external monitoring of the financial reporting process. After isolating group firms, we find that the presence of a Top 10 auditor translates into higher earnings and disclosure quality, higher valuation implications for related-party transactions, and cheaper equity financing, implying that these firms benefit from engaging a high-quality auditor. In additional analysis consistent with our predictions, we find that group firms that are Top 10 clients pay higher audit fees and their controlling shareholders are more constrained against meeting earnings benchmarks through intra-group transactions and siphoning corporate resources at the expense of minority investors. Collectively, our evidence supports the narrative that insiders in firms belonging to business groups weigh the costs and benefits stemming from auditor choice.

Keywords: business group, auditor selection, accounting transparency, related-party transactions

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Junxiong and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhang, Yinqi and Zhao, Yuping, Auditor Choice and Its Implications for Group-Affiliated Firms (September 21, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2663358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J A Pittman
Cross-country evidence on the importance of Big Four auditors to equity pricing: The mediating role of legal institutions Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Faccio , L H P Lang , L Young
Dividends and expropriation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 78 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Fan , X Wang , H Zhu
NERI Index of Marketization of China's Province Posted: 2010
J Fan , T J Wong
Do external auditors perform a corporate governance role in emerging markets? Evidence from East Asia
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 72 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,020
RANK
134,863
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies