Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the IFRS Adoption Literature

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

118 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2015 Last revised: 29 May 2016

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Xi Li

London School of Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Date Written: May 2016

Abstract

This paper reviews the literature on the effects of IFRS adoption. It aims to provide a cohesive picture of empirical archival literature on how IFRS adoption affects: financial reporting quality, capital markets, corporate decision making, stewardship and governance, debt contracting, and auditing. In addition, we also present discussion of studies that focus on specific attributes of IFRS, and also provide detailed discussion of research design choices and empirical issues researchers face when evaluating IFRS adoption effects.

We broadly summarize the development of the IFRS literature as follows: The majority of early studies paint IFRS as bringing significant benefits to adopting firms and countries in terms of (i) improved transparency, (ii) lower costs of capital, (iii) improved cross-country investments, (iv) better comparability of financial reports, and (v) increased following by foreign analysts. However, these documented benefits tended to vary significantly across firms and countries. More recent studies now attribute at least some of the earlier documented benefits to factors other than adoption of new accounting standards per se, such as enforcement changes. Other recent studies examining the effects of IFRS on the inclusion of accounting numbers in formal contracts point out that IFRS has lowered the contractibility of accounting numbers. Finally, we observe substantial variation in empirical designs across papers which makes it difficult to reconcile differences in their conclusions.

Keywords: IFRS, Review, international accounting

JEL Classification: M41; G14; G39

Suggested Citation:

De George, Emmanuel T. and Li, Xi and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan, A Review of the IFRS Adoption Literature (May 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2664475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2664475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
230 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,758
RANK
7,554
38 Citations
230 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies