Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are 'Good' Auditors Impacted More by Depletion? Threats to Valued Auditor Attributes

39 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2015 Last revised: 16 Nov 2016

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Adam Vitalis

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 10, 2016

Abstract

Auditing involves activities that psychology research characterizes as requiring self-regulation — such as switching mindsets, complex thinking, and resisting temptations. This line of literature characterizes the phenomenon whereby individuals use self-regulation resources for an action, and then have insufficient resources for a subsequent action requiring self-regulation (as such resources are limited), as depletion. We develop new theory that depletion impairs auditor performance, especially for “good” auditors (those who naturally engage in more effortful processing in complex tasks via their inherent attributes). We conduct two experiments examining how depletion interacts with examples of auditor attributes predictive of more effortful processing — professional identity and trait skepticism. Consistent with predictions, results show that the effects of depletion on performance are amplified at higher levels of the attributes. Specifically, we find that the positive relationships between the auditor attributes and performance on a complex audit task absent depletion (i.e., in the control condition) are eroded when individuals are depleted. Process-model results support our theory that effortful processing mediates the relationships between the attributes and performance and that depletion impairs individuals’ effortful processing, which negatively impacts performance. These findings help explain why “good” auditors sometimes fail to provide effective audits — their performance on complex tasks is limited under depleting conditions.

Keywords: auditor attributes; auditor effectiveness; professional identity; self-regulatory depletion; trait professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Majors, Tracie McDonald and Vitalis, Adam, Are 'Good' Auditors Impacted More by Depletion? Threats to Valued Auditor Attributes (November 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2665279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
H Alberts , C Martijn , N De Vries
Fighting Self-Control Failure: Overcoming Ego Depletion by Increasing Self-Awareness
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 62 Posted: 2011
Crossref
N Aranya , J Pollock , J Amernic
An Examination of Professional Commitment in Public Accounting. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1981
Crossref
A Aron , E Aron , D Smollan
Inclusion of Other in the Self Scale and the structure of interpersonal closeness
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 596 - 612 Posted: 1992
Crossref
B Ashforth , F Mael
Social Identity Theory and the Organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,085
RANK
120,875
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies