Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reports

43 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2015

Long Chen

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Wei Yu

Hunter College - City University of New York

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 29, 2015

Abstract

Prior studies show that corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting is informative to investors but lacks credibility. This study examines whether a commitment to audits of financial outcomes, proxied by audit fees, is associated with greater CSR reporting credibility. We find that audit fees are positively associated with the likelihood of standalone CSR report issuance, and this positive association becomes stronger when managers perceive a greater need for credibility, i.e., when CSR reports are longer or issued with external assurance, when firms have strong CSR concerns, and when reports are issued sporadically. Corroborating our results, we find that CSR reports issued by firms committing to high audit fees accelerate the incorporation of future earnings information into current stock price. Taken together, our findings suggest that a commitment to higher financial reporting quality has the potential to bring positive externality to firms’ non-financial disclosures and ultimately affects the issuance of CSR reports.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, CSR disclosure, Complementarity, Audited financial reporting, Audit fees

JEL Classification: M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Long and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Tsang, Albert and Yu, Wei, Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reports (September 29, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2666872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J C Anderson , A W Frankle
Voluntary social reporting: An iso-beta portfolio analysis
The Accounting Review , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 79 Posted: 1980
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 650 Posted: 2003-07
Crossref
B Atkins
Is corporate social responsibility responsible? Forbes Magazine Posted: 2006-11-28
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,146
RANK
34,220
5 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies