Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of PCAOB International Inspections

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2015 Last revised: 10 Oct 2019

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: October 10, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) international inspection program on companies’ financing and investing decisions. Estimates from difference-in-differences regressions suggest that companies respond to their auditor receiving a ‘deficiency-free’ inspection report by issuing additional external capital amounting to 1.4% of assets and increasing investment by 0.5% of assets. These effects are larger for (i) financially constrained companies and (ii) companies located in countries where there is no audit regulator or the audit regulator does not conduct inspections. Further, the effect on financing decisions is stronger in countries with (i) low corruption, (ii) strong rule of law, and (iii) high regulatory quality. Descriptive evidence suggests that inspections increase the use of financial covenants in debt contracts, which is likely one of the mechanisms through which inspections generate real effects. This paper documents the value of PCAOB inspections in mitigating financing frictions for non-U.S. companies.

Keywords: investment, real effects, financing constraints, auditing, financial reporting, regulation

JEL Classification: D8, D25, G15, G31, G38, M4, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Shroff, Nemit, Real Effects of PCAOB International Inspections (October 10, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2667969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2667969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J.-H Choi , J.-B Kim , X H Liu , D A Simunic
Audit pricing, legal liability regimes, and Big 4 premiums: Theory and cross country evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 99 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J.-H Choi , J.-B Kim , X H Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B E Christensen , S M Glover , T C Omer , M K Shelley
Understanding audit quality: Insights from audit professional and investors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 1648 - 1684 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M L Defond , C S Lennox
Do PCAOB Inspections Improve the Quality of Internal Control Audits
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 591 - 627 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,441
RANK
23,151
18 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies