Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whose Side are You on Anyway? Using Audit Fees to Identify Vigilant vs. Compliant Directors Among Outside Directors Who Serve on Multiple Audit Committees

48 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2015 Last revised: 4 Apr 2019

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Padmakumar Sivadasan

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

Several reforms of the Sarbanes Oxley Act were designed to strengthen the vigilance exercised by audit committee members in their oversight of independent financial-statement audits of U.S. public companies. After SOX, a shift occurred in the audit committee labor market such that more individuals sought multiple board appointments. While most governance research assumes that outside directors with multiple board memberships have reputations for being vigilant monitors of management’s financial reporting, we contend that compliant directors also exist who have reputations for being lax monitors of management. We categorize outside directors as vigilant or compliant based on whether they negotiate higher or lower audit fees with external auditors, and we focus on the sizable subset of directors who serve on multiple audit committees. As predicted, additional audit committee memberships are associated with higher levels of income-increasing earnings management, but only for compliant directors. Further, CFOs’ equity incentives to overstate earnings amplifies this positive association between additional audit committee memberships and income-increasing earnings management, but again only for compliant directors. Remarkably, the presence of vigilant directors is associated with lower earnings management, despite higher CFO equity incentives to overstate earnings as well as incremental busyness that comes with serving on multiple audit committees.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Audit Committees, Outside directors, Multiple directorships, Earnings quality, Restatements, Director independence

Suggested Citation:

Peecher, Mark E. and Rowe, Stephen P. and Sivadasan, Padmakumar, Whose Side are You on Anyway? Using Audit Fees to Identify Vigilant vs. Compliant Directors Among Outside Directors Who Serve on Multiple Audit Committees (April 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2669891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2669891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Badolato , D C Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,380
RANK
262,460
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies