Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going, Going, Still Here? Determinants and Reactions to Consecutive Going Concern Opinions

59 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2015

Kathleen Harris

Washington State University; University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Paul A. Wong

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: October 9, 2015

Abstract

This study examines whether audit firm knowledge and resources affect the likelihood a company receives consecutive going concern opinions. We also consider whether consecutive going concern opinions are useful to financial statement users. Recent comments from the FASB and PCAOB question the usefulness of going concern opinions to financial statement users. While going concern opinions are issued when substantial doubt exists about a client's viability beyond the next reporting period, little is known about why some companies receive consecutive going concern opinions. We find larger audit firms and audit firms with greater expertise issue fewer consecutive going concern opinions to their clients, and smaller audit firms issue consecutive going concern opinions to a greater proportion of clients at higher risk of bankruptcy and misstatements. This result suggests companies audited by firms with fewer resources operate longer with going concern uncertainty. We also find the initial market reactions to going concern opinions decrease with consecutive going concern opinions and disappear when consecutive going concerns exceed three. These results are consistent with FASB and PCAOB concerns. This study provides initial evidence on one source of the reduced value of going concern opinions.

Keywords: Audit firm, going concern, financial distress, auditor knowledge

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Kathleen and Harris, Kathleen and Omer, Thomas C. and Wong, Paul A., Going, Going, Still Here? Determinants and Reactions to Consecutive Going Concern Opinions (October 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2672008 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2672008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Erik Beardsley , Dennis R. Lassila , Thomas C. Omer
How Do Audit Offices Respond to Audit Fee Pressure? Evidence of Increased Focus on Nonaudit Services and Their Impact on Audit Quality
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming Pages: 50 Posted: 7 May 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P G Berger , E Ofek , I Swary
Investor valuation of the abandonment option
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 287 Posted: 1996
Crossref
K O Bowlin , J L Hobson , M D Piercey
The Effects of Auditor Rotation, Professional Skepticism, and Interactions with Managers on Audit Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1363 - 1393 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Brown , A Feigin , A Ferguson
Market reactions to the reports of a star resource analyst
Australian Journal of Management , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 158 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,301
RANK
206,880
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies