Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost of Equity Effects from Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Legal and Financial Institutions, and Auditor Quality Dimensions: Evidence from the E.U.

49 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2015

Raymond Leung

University of the Fraser Valley

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

This study examines if cost of equity can be negatively affected by mandatory IFRS adoption. Also, this paper explores how cost of equity effects differ depending on different national level of governance mechanisms because financial reporting incentives are influenced by both accounting regulation and institutional factors. While I document that mandatory IFRS adoption negatively influences cost of equity beyond the transition period, however, such observed results may also be attributed to the concurrent evolving effects from legal quality and enforcement, stock market development and auditor quality. Given that most cross-country national governance studies only apply a set of dated and static indices; I argue that using, time-varying and cross-sectional institutional indices can provide better measurement of both individual and interactive effects on firm-level cost of equity. While average legal mechanisms are an important factor, the results show that increase (decrease) in regulatory quality (legal enforcement) interacts with post-IFRS period significantly (insignificantly) and associate with lower (higher) ex-ante cost of equity. Moreover, I find that countries with different legal origins systematically associate with different dimensions of stock market development to reduce the cost of equity. Also, auditor quality is effective to reduce information asymmetry, but it highly depends on national legal quality and enforcement. Finally, I document that when cost of equity is lowered, it benefits firms with higher value.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Legal & Financial Institutions, Auditor Quality, Cost of Equity Effects

Suggested Citation:

Leung, Raymond, Cost of Equity Effects from Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Legal and Financial Institutions, and Auditor Quality Dimensions: Evidence from the E.U. (October 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2673314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
A L S Ali , Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Anderson , P P Gupta
A Cross-Country Comparison of Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: Do Financial Structure and the Legal System Matter?
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 79 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pinus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Aslan , P Kumar
National Governance Bundles and Corporate Agency Costs: A CrossCountry Analysis , volume 22 , p. 230 - 251 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
524,740
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies