Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence

53 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2015

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Brian Daugherty

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Susan Parker

Santa Clara University

Gary F. Peters

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 12, 2015

Abstract

In light of the growing importance of internal audit functions (IAF) and the limited archival evidence on internal audit quality, we examine an interactive model of IAF quality (comprised of competence and independence) to better understand the determinants of IAF effectiveness as financial reporting monitors. Our tests support the hypothesis that the joint presence of competence and independence is a necessary antecedent to effective IAF financial reporting monitoring. In sum our results show that the answer to “what is the effect of internal audit competence (independence) on financial reporting quality?” is “it depends on the independence (competence) of the internal auditor.” Our study extends the understanding of IAF quality determinants in the realm of financial reporting as it relates to ongoing discussions by researchers, standard setters, regulators, and practitioners.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Financial Reporting Quality, Auditor Independence, Auditor Competence

JEL Classification: M12, M42, M41, D83, G39

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Daugherty, Brian and Parker, Susan and Peters, Gary F., Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence (October 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2673280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
L J Abbott , ; S F Parker; And G , Peters
Earnings Management, Litigation Risk, and Asymmetric Audit Fee Responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 25 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L J Abbott , ; S Parker
Crossref
G F V Peters; And D , Rama
Corporate Governance, Audit Quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence From Internal Audit Outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
L J Abbott , ; S F Parker; And G , Peters
Serving Two Masters: The Association Between Audit Committee Internal Audit Oversight and Internal Audit Activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,852
RANK
14,122
20 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies