Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Debt-Equity Choice When Regulatory Thresholds are Based on Equity Values: Evidence from SOX 404

61 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2015 Last revised: 21 Jun 2019

David P. Weber

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Yanhua Sunny Yang

University of Connecticut - School of Business; University of Connecticut - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 23, 2019

Abstract

When larger market values of equity result in being subject to costly regulation, firms have incentives to shift their sources of financing toward debt and away from equity. We use the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) as a setting to provide evidence of such incentives. Smaller firms were granted several reprieves and eventually exempted from the internal control audit requirements of SOX Section 404, which many consider the most costly and onerous aspect of SOX. Using a difference-in-differences design, we show that relative to control firms, firms just below the regulatory threshold have increased propensities to issue debt, decreased propensities to issue equity, and increased leverage levels in the post-SOX period. These results are consistent with firms altering their financing choices to maintain their exempt status and demonstrate an economic consequence of regulatory regimes that are tiered by equity values.

Keywords: regulatory thresholds, debt-equity choice, financing, SOX 404, internal controls

JEL Classification: G32, G38, K22, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Weber, David P. and Yang, Yanhua Sunny, The Debt-Equity Choice When Regulatory Thresholds are Based on Equity Values: Evidence from SOX 404 (May 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2675366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2675366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
Securities and Exchange Commission
Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies (ACSPC). 2006. Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies (ACSEC). 2013. Recommendations Regarding Disclosure and Other Requirements for Smaller Public Companies
Crossref
A Ahmed , M L Mcanally , S Rasmussen , C Weaver
How costly is the Sarbanes-Oxley Act? Evidence on the effects of the Act on corporate profitability
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 369 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,735
RANK
185,220
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies