Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Auditor’s Opinion and Auditor’s Reputation on the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Private Spanish Firms

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

57 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2015

Manuel Cano‐Rodríguez

University of Jaén

Santiago Sánchez Alegría

Universidad Pública de Navarra

Pablo Arenas Torres

University of Jaén

Date Written: October 21, 2015

Abstract

This paper addresses the relevance of auditor’s opinion and auditor’s reputation for the creditors of private companies in an environment of low demand for audit quality. By employing archival data from private Spanish firms, we find that Big-4 auditors’ clients bear a lower cost of debt, showing that the selection of a high-quality auditor is relevant for the creditors of the company. We also demonstrate that the content of audit reports is relevant for creditors, as they require a higher cost of debt from firms that have obtained a qualified audit report. The influence of auditor’s opinion on the cost of debt does not depend on type of auditor, suggesting that Big-4 auditors’ clients benefit from their auditor’s reputation, even when they receive a qualified audit report.

Keywords: Auditor’s opinion, Auditor’s reputation, Audit quality, Cost of debt, Private companies

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cano, Manuel and Sánchez Alegría, Santiago and Torres, Pablo Arenas, The Influence of Auditor’s Opinion and Auditor’s Reputation on the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Private Spanish Firms (October 21, 2015). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2677095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J Argenti
Corporate Collapse: the Causes and Symptoms Posted: 1976
L Arnedo-Arjona , F Lizarraga-Dallo , S Sánchez-Alegría
Discretionary Accruals and Auditor Behaviour in Code-Law Contexts: An Application to Failing Spanish Firms
European Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 641 - 666 Posted: 2008
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D W Blackwell , T R Nolan , D B Winters
The value of auditor assurance: evidence from loan pricing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
331,643
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies