Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Oversight of Audit Firms: The Slippery-Slope of Enforcing Regulation

Dowling, C., W.R. Knechel and R. Moroney (2018) Public oversight of audit firms: The slippery-slope of enforcing regulation Abacus, 54(3): 353-380.

28 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2015 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Carlin Dowling

University of Melbourne

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: February 15, 2018

Abstract

This study uses the slippery-slope framework to understand how an oversight regulator’s enforcement style influences audit firm compliance. Using data from interviews with audit regulators and audit partners, we find that partners perceive the regulator’s enforcement style has shifted from being more collaborative to being more coercive. A consequence of this shift is that partners believe the development of trust between the two parties has been inhibited and a forced compliance climate has emerged. In response, firms have mandated strategies to increase the visibility of compliance, such as increasing mandatory use of checklists. Audit partners express some concern that oversight of the profession has resulted in firms adapting their audit process in ways aimed at minimising inspection risk and not necessarily improving audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Firm Inspections; Enforcement Style; Audit Regulation; Slippery-slope Framework

Suggested Citation:

Dowling, Carlin and Knechel, Warren Robert and Moroney, Robyn, Public Oversight of Audit Firms: The Slippery-Slope of Enforcing Regulation (February 15, 2018). Dowling, C., W.R. Knechel and R. Moroney (2018) Public oversight of audit firms: The slippery-slope of enforcing regulation Abacus, 54(3): 353-380., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2678828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB Talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
V Arnold , S G Sutton
The Theory of Technology Dominance: Understanding the Impact of Intelligent Decisions Aids on Decision Makers' Judgements
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 1 , p. 175 - 194 Posted: 1998
S K Asare , A M Wright
The Effectiveness of Alternative Risk Assessment and Program Planning Tools in a Fraud Setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
719
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,041
RANK
81,788
23 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies