Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excel Power Pivot's Applications in Audit and Financial Reports

Financial Audit Journal (Revista Audit Financiar), XIII, No.11 (131) 2015, 58-70 & 127-138

Posted: 26 Oct 2015

Daniel Homocianu

Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, “Alexandru Ioan Cuza” University

Date Written: September 11, 2015

Abstract

Getting performance when generating financial reports and doing auditing work currently requires a real time management of multiple data formats and dimensions of analysis but also processing speed, flexibility, portability, automation and power of suggestion. This article brings a number of theoretical arguments and practical examples in favor of using Excel Power Pivot’s facilities in reporting and audit activities. The examples also include figures that reference video scenarios grouped in an interactive list constructed by the author. They contribute to the description of a technique useful in order to obtain complex reports with dynamic behavior and specific to business intelligence applications. This technique is symbolically called E2P4CAFR in this paper and capitalizes the Microsoft Excel’s facilities of aggregating and analyzing data from databases, starting with the 2010 version of Office.

Keywords: pivoting, data warehouse, dimension, measure, dashboard, E2P4CAFR techique

JEL Classification: C61, D81, D83, M42

Suggested Citation:

Homocianu, Daniel, Excel Power Pivot's Applications in Audit and Financial Reports (September 11, 2015). Financial Audit Journal (Revista Audit Financiar), XIII, No.11 (131) 2015, 58-70 & 127-138, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2679747
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies