Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Client Advocacy Attitudes and a Foreign Decision Environment Affect Auditor Judgement

38 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2015

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Robert E. Pinsker

Florida Atlantic University

Ferdy van Beest

Nyenrode Business University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 23, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate potential reasons for the heterogeneity of audit judgments when auditors are assigned to a foreign country. Drawing on prior judgment-and-decision-making (JDM) research, we predict that client advocacy attitudes and local firm policies influence auditor judgment – despite the auditors being part of the same global network. Using a sample of experienced auditors from the US and The Netherlands, we measure client advocacy attitudes and manipulate the local office’s firm policy decision environment (principles-oriented, rules-oriented, control [no manipulation]).

Results show that client advocacy attitudes impact disclosure recommendations and this relationship is moderated by decision environment. Specifically, auditors possessing a higher level of advocacy attitudes hold more client-favorable judgments than those with lower advocacy levels. Moreover, at the higher level of advocacy attitudes, auditors in the rules-oriented environment have more client-favorable judgments than those either in a principles-oriented environment or in the control condition. Our context involves a foreign country audit and findings extend the JDM, accounting standard, and decision environment literatures.

Keywords: JDM, disclosure, decision environment, client advocacy

JEL Classification: M42, J10

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and Pinsker, Robert E. and Beest, Ferdy van, How Client Advocacy Attitudes and a Foreign Decision Environment Affect Auditor Judgement (October 23, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2679103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2679103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Committee on Auditing Procedure, Auditing Standards and Procedures. Statements on Auditing Procedure Posted: 2000
Crossref
E M Bamber , R J Ramsay , R M Tubbs
An examination of the descriptive validity of the belief-adjustment model and alternative attitudes to evidence in auditing
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , p. 249 - 268 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C C Bishop , D R Hermanson , R W Houston
PCOAB inspections of international audit firms
International Journal of Auditing , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,559
RANK
149,087
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies