Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services, Audit Pricing and Auditor Independence

46 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2015

Paul V. Dunmore

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Haim Falk

The Technion, Israel Institute of Technology

Date Written: September 1, 2001

Abstract

The SEC recently amended its auditor independence rule, prohibiting auditors from providing certain non-audit services to their audit clients. The International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) has also released a draft revision to its Code of Ethics, which will have a similar effect. These changes are intended to reduce motivation for auditors to compromise their independence.

We present an economic model, based on earlier work by DeAngelo and by Magee and Tseng, to examine the economic impact of the provision of non-audit services on the pricing of audits and on the incentives for auditors to compromise independence. The model extends earlier work in that it (i) allows for both consensus and genuine differences of opinion among auditors about a disputed accounting issue; (ii) permits opinion-shopping by clients; (iii) explicitly considers the legal and disciplinary costs for an auditor both of wrongly agreeing and of wrongly disagreeing with the client; (iv) includes the effect of profits from consulting work which is ‘tied’ to the audit engagement; and (v) examines the situation in which an auditor compels a client to change a treatment with which the auditor privately agrees, in order to avoid the costs for the auditor of defending that treatment publicly.

The model enables the calculation of audit prices when the incumbent auditor either agrees or disagrees with the client, facing competing auditors who unanimously agree, unanimously disagree, or have divided opinions; this leads to the wealth change for an auditor who compromises independence. Profits from non-audit services reduce ongoing audit fees, but do not affect any initial fee discount (low-balling). We infer that audit firms which cannot cross-subsidize audit work from consulting profits will suffer a competitive disadvantage in the audit market.

Profits from non-audit services do not contribute to auditors’ economic incentives to compromise independence. The main incentive comes from the economic benefit to the client from a preferred treatment, but competition and the threat of legal or disciplinary action usually limits the incentive. However, incentives to compromise may exist even when the client does not benefit, because economic pressure to compromise comes from the regulatory environment as well as from the client. When auditors are unanimous that the client’s treatment is wrong, the incentive to compromise may be unlimited.

It thus appears that the new SEC and IFAC rules may lead to an increase in the prices for audit services, while doing little to reduce the economic incentives for auditors to compromise independence.

Keywords: Audit fees, MAS, independence

Suggested Citation:

Dunmore, Paul and Falk, Haim, Joint Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services, Audit Pricing and Auditor Independence (September 1, 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2681624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2681624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
RANK
306,268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies