Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going-Concern Opinions, Executive Tenure and Gender

Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 12, Issue 3, Spring 2015

Posted: 31 Oct 2015

Angie M. Abdel Zaher

Florida International University (FIU); The American University in Cairo

Date Written: January 29, 2015

Abstract

Regulators in the USA and elsewhere have shown renewed interest in auditors’ judgments related to going-concern modified (GC) audit reports. Such judgments involve evaluating management’s plans, and prior research suggests that executive turnover is associated with significant organizational changes. Further, some recent studies posit that gender is associated with accounting and audit judgments. We examine audit opinions for two different samples: 2,089 financially stressed firms and 642 manufacturing firms that filed for bankruptcy. In both samples, we find that GC opinions are more likely for firms with a new CFO; however, we find no significant association between GC opinions and executives’ gender. The CFO tenure related result may arise from auditors’ professional skepticism related to a new executive. Our gender-related results differ from those of Gold et al. (2009) and suggest the need for additional research related to the role of client gender in auditing settings.

Keywords: Audit opinion, audit quality, going concern, executive characteristics

Suggested Citation:

Abdel Zaher, Angie M. and Abdel Zaher, Angie M., Going-Concern Opinions, Executive Tenure and Gender (January 29, 2015). Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 12, Issue 3, Spring 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2683459
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies