Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Report Lag and Submission Approval Lag: The Case of Insurance Companies

JAFR 2013, Vol II

9 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2015

Daniel A. Ames

Illinois State University

Date Written: November 7, 2015

Abstract

I use a firm’s risk-based capital (RBC) ratio as a proxy for insolvency risk, and measure time spent by auditors preparing regulatory submissions (audit report lag), and time spent by regulators reviewing audit submissions of these insurance companies (submission approval lag). Results indicate that the file size submitted by insurers varies negatively with RBC and that higher RBCs are associated with faster approval of regulatory submissions. Among riskier firms, higher RBCs are associated with longer processing time, perhaps suggesting that regulators spend the most time examining the filing submissions of firms that are risky, but not firms for whom insolvency is inevitable. Contrary to expectations, audit report lag is not significantly related to RBC.

Suggested Citation:

Ames, Daniel A., Audit Report Lag and Submission Approval Lag: The Case of Insurance Companies (November 7, 2015). JAFR 2013, Vol II, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2687536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliot
An empirical analysis of audit delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R H Ashton , P R Graul , J D Newton
Audit delay and the timeliness of corporate reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 657 - 673 Posted: 1989
Crossref
M E Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
Management of the loss reserve accrual and the distribution in the property-casualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 347 - 376 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
375,525
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies