Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Decision Behavior and Audit Quality of Big and Small Audit Firms in a Tendering Process

49 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2015

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Marcel Haak

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: October 16, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the strategic decision making of audit firms in a tendering process. In particular, we are interested in how audit firms behave to acquire audit clients and which audit quality is ensured. Our main findings are manifold. First, if two big audit firms are competing, we do not observe that each firm tries to acquire all clients. However, if one big and one small audit firm are competing, we find evidence that the big audit firm generally apply strategies to acquire all available clients. In contrast, the small audit firm uses a clear “Guerilla Strategy” which means that the firm concentrates only on few clients whereas the other clients are almost ignored. Second, small audit firms are better off if more clients do exist in the tendering process. Thus, the legislator should ensure that more audit clients are tendered if the competitiveness of smaller audit firms should be enhanced. Third, in a situation in which the competitive advantage of big audit firms increases over-proportionally, we do not observe that big audit firms are able to decrease the market share of small audit firms markedly or are even able to push small audit firms out of the market. Fourth, we find that the quality level of an audit is higher if the client is acquired by a small audit firm. This implies that increasing the number of smaller audit firms could increase the quality level of the audit market.

Keywords: tendering process, behavioral accounting, experimental economics

JEL Classification: M42, C91

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Haak, Marcel, Strategic Decision Behavior and Audit Quality of Big and Small Audit Firms in a Tendering Process (October 16, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2689550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
J Avrahami , Y Kareev
Do the Weak Stand a Chance? Distribution of Resources in a Competitive Environment
Cognitive Science , volume 33 , p. 940 - 950 Posted: 2009
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Audit Market Competition: Auditor Changes and the Impact of Tendering
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , p. 261 - 289 Posted: 1998
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Auditor changes and tendering -UK interview evidence
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 98 Posted: 1998
R T Bell , T M Cover
Competitive optimality of Logarithmic Investment , volume 5 , p. 161 - 166 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
518,107
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies