Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restating Internal Control Reports following Financial Statement Restatements: Determinants and Consequences

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2015 Last revised: 26 Jul 2021

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Kannan Raghunandan

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 20, 2021

Abstract

After restating their financial statements, companies may voluntarily restate their previously issued internal control (IC) reports for the financial statement (FS) misstatement periods changing them from “effective” to “ineffective.” When announcing these IC restatements, companies often provide a detailed explanation of the IC problems and a discussion of their plans to remediate these problems. We find that companies with less severe IC problems which can be remediated more quickly are more likely to restate their IC reports. Moreover, these results are driven by companies with a higher need for external financing, suggesting that IC restaters voluntarily restate their IC reports in order to inform investors about their less severe IC material weaknesses and their plans to improve IC quality. Finally, we find that, relative to other FS restatement companies, IC restaters have a lower likelihood of Chief Financial Officer turnover and auditor resignation following the FS restatement.

Keywords: restatements, internal control, CFO turnover, auditor resignation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Li, Chan and Raghunandan, Kannan and Sun, Lili, Restating Internal Control Reports following Financial Statement Restatements: Determinants and Consequences (July 20, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2690035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2690035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Doyle , W Ge , S Mcvay
Determinants of weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 193 - 223 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R J Elder , Y Zhang , J Zhou , N Zhou
Internal control weaknesses and client risk management
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 579 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Ettredge , C Li , L Sun
The impact of SOX Section 404 internal control quality assessment on audit delay in the SOX era
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Ettredge , J Heintz , C Li , S Scholz
Auditor realignments accompanying implementation of SOX 404 ICFR reporting requirements
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,848
RANK
203,526
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies