Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Initial Discount for New Audit Engagements: Case of UK 1998-2012

Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-03

66 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2015 Last revised: 27 May 2016

Marek Kacer

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre (CMRC); Leeds University Business School (LUBS) - Accounting and Finance Division; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Economics in Bratislava

Nick Wilson

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

In this paper we examine evidence and patterns of the pricing of initial audit engagements covering various types of audit firms and auditees. In contrast to existing empirical studies we use a very large sample of UK private and public companies of all sizes covering a long time period, 1998-2012, utilising 792,705 company-year observations. We employ a novel hybrid panel data estimator to explore time variant features of audit market discounting as it responds to changes in the competitive and regulatory landscape and statutory audit requirements. We confirm and replicate some of the findings of earlier studies and document the average market-wide initial discounting from data that covers both listed and private companies. We investigate the temporal stability of previous findings. Our results suggest that discounting across the whole audit market is more complex than within the listed segment alone and that figures on ‘average discount rates’ disguise some interesting variations in discount pricing across the audit market and observed changes over the estimation period. We find that changes from lower quality auditor to the higher quality auditors are rarely associated with additional discounts. Moreover, we present evidence that listed companies enjoyed higher discounts than unlisted companies. We document that the initial discounts do not lead to ‘short-cutting’ and that the audit fees revert to normal levels within a five-year period. Contributing to the recent debate on auditor choice and competition in the segment of listed companies we find evidence of strong price competition between the Big 4 Auditors in some of the estimated time periods.

Keywords: auditing; auditor change; initial discounts; low-balling; price recovery

Suggested Citation:

Kacer, Marek and Wilson, Nicholas, The Initial Discount for New Audit Engagements: Case of UK 1998-2012 (June 1, 2016). Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 16-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2691019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Paul D Allison
Fixed Effects Regression Models Posted: 2009
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
The importance of audit firm characteristics and the drivers of auditor change in UK listed companies
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 100 , p. 227 - 239 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J P Bedingfield , S E Loeb
Auditor changes -An examination
Journal of Accountancy , volume 137 , issue 3 , p. 66 - 69 Posted: 1974
A Bell , K Jones
Explaining Fixed Effects: Random Effects Modeling of Time-Series Cross-Sectional and Panel Data
Political Science Research and Methods , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 133 - 153 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
David C. Hay
Audit Fee Research on Issues Related to Ethics
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. A1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
470,088
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies