Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SOX 404, Auditor Effort, and the Prevention of Financial Report Misstatements

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2015 Last revised: 25 Jan 2017

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Prior research shows that the Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Section 404(b) integrated audit is associated with lower incidence of misstatements. We predict that under 404(b), the auditor’s ability to detect misstatements increases relative to other internal control regimes when greater resources are exerted during the engagement. Supporting this prediction, we find that the benefits of 404(b) vs. other regimes (including SOX 404(a)) in reducing misstatements increase with incremental audit effort (proxied by abnormal audit fees). We find no benefit of 404(b) in misstatement reduction when abnormal audit effort is low. This implies that the value of 404(b) testing is not uniform, but rather is greater when sufficient resources are available to thoroughly understand client controls. In contrast, we find no benefit of abnormal audit effort under other regulatory regimes. We further examine the conditions under which knowledge gained from auditor internal control testing is more valuable. We find that the benefits of increased audit effort under 404(b) do not vary across internal control regimes under AS2 vs. AS5, and are more pronounced for engagements with shorter auditor tenure, non-Big 4 auditors, and industry specialist auditors.

Keywords: Audit quality, internal controls, SOX 404(b), restatements, material weakness

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Yuping and Bedard, Jean C. and Hoitash, Rani, SOX 404, Auditor Effort, and the Prevention of Financial Report Misstatements (2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2693619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2693619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
AICPA). 1988. Statement on Auditing Standard (SAS) No. 55−The auditor's considerations of internal control structure in the financial statement audit
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
RANK
153,575
4 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies