Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restatements: Do They Affect Auditor Reputation for Quality?

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Nov 2015

Afshad J. Irani

Washington and Lee University

Stefanie L. Tate

University of Massachusetts at Lowell

Le Emily Xu

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: November 25, 2015

Abstract

We examine whether an auditor's involvement with a financial statement restatement has a negative effect on their reputation as evidenced by both clients' and the market's assessments of audit firm quality. Specifically, we investigate the effect of auditor involvement with restatements on the non-restating clients' likelihood to dismiss their auditors in the year subsequent to restatement and on non-restating clients' market adjusted returns (MARs) around the restatement announcement date. We also investigate whether the severity of the restatements has a differential effect on both variables. We find non-restating clients are more likely to dismiss auditors as the number of restatements the auditor was involved with increases and this likelihood increases with the number of restated items. In addition, non-restating clients' MARs are significantly negative around the restatement announcement date and are more negative with more severe restatements.

Keywords: financial restatements, audit quality, auditor reputation, auditor dismissal

Suggested Citation:

Irani, Afshad Jeevan and Tate, Stefanie L. and Xu, Le Emily, Restatements: Do They Affect Auditor Reputation for Quality? (November 25, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695424
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies