Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Education Background, Continuous Education and Training, and Obedience on Code of Ethics to Improve Audit Quality (Case Study in Indonesia)

11 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2015

Ika Oktavia

Independent

Subiyanto Subiyanto

Independent

Dhony Nugroho

Sebelas Maret University

Indah Widiastuti

Independent

Yulia Cintami

Sebelas Maret University

Agung Probohudono

Sebelas Maret University

Date Written: November 24, 2015

Abstract

This study aims to understand whether education background, continuous education and training, and obedience on code of ethics have an effect of audit quality in Sragen District Inspectorate.

This study is a descriptive practice-oriented research that does not need the development and testing of hypothesis. The primary data is acquired from the interview with seven participants, which consist of the auditors in Sragen District Inspectorate. The secondary data is acquired from various previous studies and laws in Indonesia.

The result shows that education background, continuous education and training, and obedience on code of ethics have an effect on audit quality in Sragen District Inspectorate.

Keywords: education background, continuous education and training, code of ethics, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Oktavia, Ika and Subiyanto, Subiyanto and Nugroho, Dhony and Widiastuti, Indah and Cintami, Yulia and Probohudono, Agung, Education Background, Continuous Education and Training, and Obedience on Code of Ethics to Improve Audit Quality (Case Study in Indonesia) (November 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M Alim , Trisni Nizarul , Hapsari Dan Liliek , Purwanti
Pengaruh Kompetensi dan Independensi terhadap Kualitas Auditor dengan Etika auditor sebagai Variabel Moderasi
Makalah. Simposium Nasional Akuntansi X Posted: 2007
A Arens , Randal J Alvin , S B Dan Mark
Auditing and Assurance Services An Integrated Approach. Edisi Ke duabelas Posted: 2008
Rizal Batubara , Iskandar
Analisis Pengaruh Latar Belakang Pendidikan, Kecakapan Profesional, Pendidikan Berkelanjutan, Dan Independensi Pemeriksa Terhadap Kualitas Hasil Pemeriksaan (Studi Empiris Pada Badan Pengawas Kota Medan)
Tesis. Sumatera Utara: Ilmu Akuntansi Posted: 2008
Haslinda Lubis
Pengaruh Keahlian, Independensi, Kecermatan Professional dan Kepatuhan Pada Kode Etik Terhadap Kualitas Hasil Auditor Pada Inspektorat Provinsi Sumatera Utara
Tesis. Sumatera Utara: Ilmu Akuntansi Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,623
RANK
618,773
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies