Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Specialist Type and Estimate Aggressiveness on Juror Judgments of Auditor Negligence

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Dec 2015 Last revised: 5 Dec 2018

J. Owen Brown

Baylor University

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Jonathan Pyzoha

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Andrew Reffett

Miami University of Ohio

Date Written: November 26, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the interactive effects on jurors' auditor negligence assessments of two critical factors auditors consider when auditing complex estimates, the decision to use a specialist and the relative aggressiveness of management's estimate. Experiment 1 finds that jurors view auditors' acceptance of a more aggressive estimate as more justifiable, and are thus less likely to find the auditors negligent, when the auditors consulted with either an internal or external specialist when auditing the estimate. We do not, however, observe the same litigation benefits of using a specialist for less aggressive estimates. Experiment 2 extends these results by revealing jurors are less likely to find auditors negligent when the auditors use an external as opposed to an internal specialist, due to more favorable perceptions of external specialists' independence, leading to their audit procedures being viewed as more justifiable. However, we find auditors can accrue the same litigation benefits of using external specialists by having an external specialist review the internal specialists' work, as jurors perceive using both specialists as more justifiable. Overall, we find utilizing external specialists, either to directly test management estimates or to review internal specialists' work, can limit auditors' litigation exposure when auditing relatively aggressive complex estimates.

Keywords: Auditing, specialists, estimates, aggressiveness, auditor negligence

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Owen and Grenier, Jonathan H. and Pyzoha, Jonathan and Reffett, Andrew, The Effects of Specialist Type and Estimate Aggressiveness on Juror Judgments of Auditor Negligence (November 26, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2699379
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies