Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future Research Directions at the Intersection Between Cognitive Neuroscience Research and Auditors’ Professional Skepticism

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Dec 2015 Last revised: 9 Mar 2018

Carmen Olsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law; Western Norway University of Applied Sciences

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Date Written: March 7, 2018

Abstract

This paper addresses how cognitive neuroscience can advance our understanding of auditor professional skepticism (hereafter, PS) in ways that traditional perspectives may not be able to do. Drawing on the literature from cognitive neuroscience and PS research, we identify the following PS research areas potentially improved with neuroscientific perspectives: trust, trait and state skepticism, theory, and deception/fraud detection. We propose research questions under each research area identified using a neuroscientific perspective to help examine and ultimately improve the PS level among auditors. The manuscript concludes by discussing the critical question of whether integrating a neuroscientific perspective into PS research is worthwhile and provides further direction for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Olsen, Carmen and Olsen, Carmen and Gold, Anna, Future Research Directions at the Intersection Between Cognitive Neuroscience Research and Auditors’ Professional Skepticism (March 7, 2018). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699014
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Neuroscience eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies