Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Size and Going Concern Reporting

54 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2015 Last revised: 4 Oct 2016

Nathan R. Berglund

Mississippi State University

John Daniel Eshleman

Rutgers - Camden

Peng Guo

Michigan Technological University

Date Written: October 3, 2016

Abstract

Auditing theory predicts that larger auditors will be more likely to issue a going concern opinion to a distressed client. However, the existing empirical evidence on this issue is mixed. We argue that the mixed results of prior literature are attributable to a failure to adequately control for clients’ financial health. We demonstrate how properly controlling for clients’ financial health reveals a positive relationship between auditor size and the propensity to issue going concern opinions. We corroborate our finding by replicating a related study and showing how the results change when financial health variables are added to the model. In supplemental analysis, we find that Big 4 auditors are more likely than midtier auditors (Grant Thornton and BDO Seidman) to issue going concern opinions to distressed clients. We also find that, compared to other auditors, the Big 4 are less likely to issue false positive (type I error) going concern opinions. Our results are robust to using a variety of matching techniques.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Big 4, Going Concern, Auditor Independence

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Berglund, Nathan and Eshleman, John Daniel and Guo, Peng, Auditor Size and Going Concern Reporting (October 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2699810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Yu Chen , John Daniel Eshleman , Jared S. Soileau
Business Strategy and Auditor Reporting
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 63 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Lawrence Abbott , Colleen M. Boland , William L. Buslepp , Sean McCarthy
U.S. Audit Partner Identification and Auditor Reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Forthcoming · Posted: 8 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 5 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammad Noor Hisham Osman , Ahmed Razman Abdul Latiff , Zaidi Mat Daud , Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori
The Impact of Management, Family, and Institution on The Auditor’s Going Concern Opinion Issuance Decision
International Journal of Economics and Management 12 (2): 671-691 (2018) · 21 Pages · Posted: 17 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohamed M. El-Dyasty , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
The Effect of Auditor Type on Audit Quality in Emerging Markets: Evidence From Egypt
El-Dyasty, M.A., & Elamer, A.A., (2020) ‘The effect of auditor type on audit quality in emerging markets: Evidence from Egypt’, International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Forthcoming, (Accepted 1 August 2020). https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-04-2020-0060 , · 33 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,159
RANK
57,082
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies