Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Behavioral Intention Towards Dysfunctional Audit Behavior Applying Theory of Reasoned Action

Khan, S., Panatik, S. A., Saat, M. M. and Perveen, H. (2013). Auditors’ Behavioral Intention Towards Dysfunctional Audit Behavior Applying Theory of Reasoned Action. Jurnal Teknologi, 64(3), 153.

6 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2015

Sadaf Khan

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Siti Panatik

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Maisarah Saat

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Hina Perveen

University of Karachi

Date Written: September 25, 2013

Abstract

Dysfunctional audit behaviors behind corporate fiascos are a burning issue in today’s ever changing globalized business world. After the Enron scandal that saw the demise of Arthur Andersen LLP., a growing research interest in the field of audit quality is being witnessed. With this negative publicity of professional auditing firms, it is pertinent to execute an efficient audit, causes of these dysfunctional audit behaviors should necessarily be identified and eliminated. To help address this issue, the paper attempted to explain an auditor's behavioral intention to engage or not to engage in dysfunctional audit behaviors through the lens of the Theory of Reasoned Action. The study proposed a Theory of Reasoned Action as a guide for a valid prediction of auditors's intention to involve in dysfunctional audit behaviors. This proposed framework is recommended for not only practitioners who engaged in the auditing profession, but also for many other regulators including the board of directors, audit committees, top management, stakeholder, and governing bodies, to enable them take initiatives to enhance the ethics in their work environments.

Keywords: Auditing; dysfunctional audit behavior; attitude; auditor(s) intention; Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Sadaf and Panatik, Siti and Saat, Maisarah and Perveen, Hina, Auditors’ Behavioral Intention Towards Dysfunctional Audit Behavior Applying Theory of Reasoned Action (September 25, 2013). Khan, S., Panatik, S. A., Saat, M. M. and Perveen, H. (2013). Auditors’ Behavioral Intention Towards Dysfunctional Audit Behavior Applying Theory of Reasoned Action. Jurnal Teknologi, 64(3), 153., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Christopher P. Agoglia , Richard C. Hatfield , Tamara A. Lambert
Audit Team Time Reporting: An Agency Theory Perspective
Agoglia, C. P., R. C. Hatfield, T. A. Lambert 2015 (July). Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective. Accounting, Organizations and Society 44: 1-14., Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming Posted: 16 Jun 2010 Last revised: 31 May 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Aisyah
Faktor-faktor Gaya Pembuatan Keputusan Dalam Pembelian Barangan di Kalangan Pengguna
Jurnal Teknologi , volume 41 , p. 73 - 91 Posted: 2004
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality and Behavior Posted: 1988
I Ajzen
The Theory of Planned Behavior. Organizational Behavior and Human Processes , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Load more
1 Citations
Syed Ali Raza Rizvi , Danish Ahmed Siddiqui
Factors Influencing the Attitude and Behavioral Intention of Auditors for Use of Forensic Accounting Services: A Study on Banking Industry of Pakistan
32 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 103
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,365
RANK
222,859
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies