Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early Evidence on the Effects of Critical Audit Matters on Auditor Liability

Gimbar, C., B. Hansen, and M. E. Ozlanski. 2015. Early Evidence on the Effects of Critical Audit Matters on Auditor Liability. Current Issues in Auditing (Forthcoming)

Posted: 12 Dec 2015

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

Bowe Hansen

Virginia Commonwealth University

Michael Ozlanski

Susquehanna University

Date Written: December 10, 2015

Abstract

The U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board recently proposed changes to the audit reporting model that would require auditors to disclose areas of high audit risk within the audit report. Concerns about the proposal’s potential to increase auditor liability have been raised by practitioners and highlighted in the business press. In this paper, we review five recent experiments that directly relate to these concerns, identify patterns in the results, and discuss the implications of these findings for regulators and practitioners.

Keywords: PCAOB, audit reporting, auditor litigation, critical audit matters (CAMs)

Suggested Citation:

Gimbar, Christine and Hansen, Thomas Bowe and Ozlanski, Michael, Early Evidence on the Effects of Critical Audit Matters on Auditor Liability (December 10, 2015). Gimbar, C., B. Hansen, and M. E. Ozlanski. 2015. Early Evidence on the Effects of Critical Audit Matters on Auditor Liability. Current Issues in Auditing (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701898
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies