Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Auditor Switching and Audit Opinion in the Republic of Serbia

Finiz Conference, Belgrade, 2015

4 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2015 Last revised: 20 Dec 2015

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Tijana Radojevic

Singidunum University

Nenad Stanic

Singidunum University

Danica Rajin

Singidunum University

Date Written: December 4, 2015

Abstract

In this study, the authors examine the association between auditor switching and type of audit opinion on a sample of companies in the Republic of Serbia. The sample comprised 4,309 non-financial companies for which auditor’s reports were publicly available for the period 2010-2013. The results show that auditor switching was linked to an increased likelihood of change in the type of audit opinion. In the case when the initial audit opinion was unqualified or qualified, this increase was statistically significant. Such findings can indicate that auditor switching may lead to an improved informative value of auditor’s reports, but it also raises concerns about the possibility of opinion shopping.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Auditor switching, Audit opinion

JEL Classification: M49, C12

Suggested Citation:

Stanisic, Nemanja and Radojevic, Tijana and Stanic, Nenad and Rajin, Danica, The Association between Auditor Switching and Audit Opinion in the Republic of Serbia (December 4, 2015). Finiz Conference, Belgrade, 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S L Tsui
Discretionaryaccruals models and audit qualifi cations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Audit market competition: auditor changes and the impact of tendering
British Accounting Review Posted: 1998-09-01
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Th e Importance of Audit Firm Characteristics and the Drivers of Auditor Change in UK Listed Companies
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 100 , p. 227 - 239 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Brooks , C Cheng , J Johnston , K Reichelt
Estimates of Optimal Audit Firm Tenure across Diff erent Legal Regimes Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,311
RANK
303,670
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies