Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging Integrated Information Systems to Enhance Strategic Flexibility and Performance: The Enabling Role of Enterprise Risk Management

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 19: 1-16, 2015

Posted: 19 Dec 2015

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Tanya Benford

Florida Gulf Coast University

Joseph Canada

Rutgers University

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Enterprise risk management (ERM) has arguably become the dominant strategic management focus of organizations primarily due to a combination of factors — stakeholders’ aversion to uncertainty, volatility of the current marketplace, and compliance mandates such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The purpose of this study is to develop and test a theory of the impact of ERM on two aspects of organizational performance, strategic flexibility and supply chain performance. The study is designed to examine conflicting views on the effect of increased levels of governance on organizations’ flexibility and supply chain performance, and determine whether ERM capability influences the observed differential effects. Building on theories related to the electronic integration perspective of firm agility and the role of knowledge integration on the activation of the link between strategic flexibility and performance, we develop a theory of ERM as an enabler of IT integration, flexibility, and performance. A cross-sectional field study of six companies illustrates the interrelationships and provides preliminary support for the theory. Subsequent testing using data from 155 Chief Audit Executives provides strong support for the theory. The results show that a broad-based, strategic approach to ERM enhances flexibility and strengthens the relationship between flexibility and performance. The results also provide evidence that enhanced IT integration is the mechanism through which ERM strengthens both flexibility and in turn performance.

Keywords: Strategic enterprise risk management, supply chain performance, business process control, information technology integration, organizational strategic flexibility

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Vicky and Benford, Tanya and Canada, Joseph and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Leveraging Integrated Information Systems to Enhance Strategic Flexibility and Performance: The Enabling Role of Enterprise Risk Management (September 1, 2015). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 19: 1-16, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2705063
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,537
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies