Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Auditor's Learning Costs and Non-Audit Services on Audit Quality

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

64 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2016

Ling Chu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: January 11, 2016

Abstract

This study uses a very simple but intuitive model to examine how audit quality is determined. It concludes that audit quality is higher if two forces have opposite effects on an auditor’s conservatism are balanced and significant. A force that makes an auditor less conservative is the benefit from future engagements with a client, while the force that makes the auditor more conservative is the expected liabilities from overstated accounting values. Given that the expected auditor’s liabilities from overstated accounting values are usually significant, we find that significant rents from future engagements with a client improve audit quality through inducing greater audit efforts and less biased reports. Our analysis suggests that learning costs and non-audit services would be sources for these future rents, and auditors should be allowed to provide non-audit services to their clients and these revenues should be higher as auditor tenure lengthens. Furthermore, our analysis shows that mandatory auditor rotation is detrimental to audit quality since it reduces the future rents to auditors which lead to lower audit effort and more biased report. Finally, well-developed auditing standards need to be properly enforced by the regulator/profession for auditors to render appropriate audit quality when the costs associated with over and under reporting are low and/or not balanced.

Keywords: auditor liabilities, audit quality, auditor effort, non-audit services, auditor rotation

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Ling and Zhang, Ping, An Analysis of Auditor's Learning Costs and Non-Audit Services on Audit Quality (January 11, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D Chan , S Pae
An analysis of the economic consequences of the proportionate liability rule
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 457 - 480 Posted: 1998
Crossref
L Deangelo
Auditor independence, 'low balling', and disclosure regulation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 127 Posted: 1981
Crossref
J R Francis , B Ke
Disclosure of fees paid to auditors and the market valuation of earnings surprises
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 495 - 523 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,766
RANK
315,702
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies