Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are All Accounting Estimates Auditable? Some Evidence on Estimated Returns in Pension Accounting

58 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016

Uli Menzefricke

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: July 14, 2015

Abstract

This study empirically analyzes the long term and short term auditability of over 3000 individual firm pension accounting estimates of rates of return on pension assets over ten consecutive years (2001-2010). We find that the point estimates allowed by GAAP create auditability challenges and do not appear to be useful for rational decision making under uncertainty. Moreover, we find that the additional note disclosures of the estimation process may not compensate for the bad accounting that arises from relying on unauditable estimation processes. These findings do not support recent changes to the conceptual framework of financial reporting proposed in the IASB’s May 2015 Exposure Draft. Specifically, the IASB’s proposal to de-emphasize the importance of verifiability and to rely on more note disclosures of the estimation process can reduce the usefulness of financial reporting by adding to estimation uncertainty in the accounting for pension costs. However, our study empirically supports recent concerns about increasing problems with the uncertainties of accounting estimates in the current financial reporting environment (PCAOB 2014, and CPAB 2015).

Suggested Citation:

Menzefricke, Uli and Smieliauskas, Wally, Are All Accounting Estimates Auditable? Some Evidence on Estimated Returns in Pension Accounting (July 14, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Adams , M M Frank , T Perry
The Potential for Inflating Earnings Through the Expected Rate of Return on Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 443 - 464 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Auditing Estimates and Other Soft Accounting Information. AICPA Posted: 1998
Audit Guide: Audit Sampling Posted: 2008
Crossref
Aicpa New York
Load more
1 Citations
Valentin Burcă , Cristina Nicolăescu , Daniel Drăguţ
Critical Analysis on the Amendments Discussed, Concerning Changes in Accounting Estimates
Studies in Business and Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 17 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
RANK
508,508
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies