Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditability of Accounting Estimates and the IASB's Conceptual Framework Exposure Draft (2015)

37 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: January 14, 2016

Abstract

An important aspect of the audit environment is the financial reporting that needs to be verified. In May 2015, the International Accounting Standards Board [IASB] issued an exposure draft [ED] for a new conceptual framework [CF] of financial reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards. We analyse this ED from audit, ethical, and logical perspectives, including by recourse to debate at the first IASB Research Forum held at Oxford University in October 2014. We find that the ED is moving to a rules-based perspective that does not address the problem of financial reporting which deviates from the stated objectives of the CF. This arises from failures to create a CF that is the overarching authority for accounting standards, to coherently integrate the CF with auditing standards, and to put bounds on estimation uncertainty associated with the valuations allowed by the ED. This last failing may be the most critical in that it can prevent the system from being a principles-based social science. In totality, the failings create problems of truthfulness, auditability, and ethics of financial reporting, as documented here.

Keywords: IASB conceptual framework, auditability, principles-based standards

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally, Auditability of Accounting Estimates and the IASB's Conceptual Framework Exposure Draft (2015) (January 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
S S Albrecht
Business Fraud (The Enron Problem) Posted: 2005
D Alexander , S Archer
On economic reality, representational faithfulness and the 'true and fair override
Accounting and Business Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Amernic , R Craig
Accounting as a facilitator of extreme narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,320
RANK
303,670
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies