Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Self-Actualization and Their Ability to Resist Client Pressure

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

38 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016

Rachel Papirakis

ESG UQAM

Date Written: January 14, 2016

Abstract

The objective of this study is to evaluate the existence of a relationship between auditor self-actualization and auditor resistance to client pressure. The hypotheses of this study predict that auditors with a high self-actualization and a stronger attachment to independence will show a higher level of resistance to client pressure. It is also predicted that while auditors are influenced by client power, auditors with a higher self-actualization will be less influenced by client power. A mail survey was conducted of Canadian Big 4 audit partners, with a final sample of 136 partners, for a 32.9% response rate. The results show that auditor resistance to client pressure is positively correlated with auditor self-actualization and auditor attachment to independence and negatively correlated with client power, supporting my general model. Contrary to the hypotheses, results show that the relationship between auditor self-actualization and resistance to client pressure is not conditional to a higher attachment to independence. A possible explanation is that auditors have a higher attachment to independence, meaning that they can not be categorized as higher or lower attachment. Results also indicate that auditor attachment to independence is a mediating variable in the relationship between auditor self-actualization and auditor resistance to client pressure. This study is the first to study auditor self-actualization, and to provide empirical evidence on the power balance in the auditor-client relationship.

Keywords: self-actualization, auditors, power, independence, resistance to pressure

Suggested Citation:

Papirakis, Rachel, Auditor Self-Actualization and Their Ability to Resist Client Pressure (January 14, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Ahmad Z , D Taylor
Commitment to independence by internal auditors : the effects of role ambiguity and role conflict
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 899 - 925 Posted: 2009
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing : A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Bachrach , M S Baratz
The two faces of power
American Political Science Review , volume 56 , p. 947 - 952 Posted: 1962
Crossref
K W Braun
The disposition of audit-detected misstatements: an examination of risk and reward factors and aggregation effects
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 99 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
364,553
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies