Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constructing Independence

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

24 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016

Brent White

Mount Allison University

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

Independence, in both fact and appearance, is a cornerstone of the auditing profession. This case study research, which is funded by the CAAA and CPA Canada, uses the accounting profession’s articulation of five threats to independence as a framework to examine how independence appears to have been defined differently in two different Canadian political jurisdictions, British Columbia and New Brunswick. In both jurisdictions, a government appointed their Comptroller, a key financial officer inside government, as their Auditor General (the external, independent auditor of government, ostensibly serving the legislature) without the benefit of any 'cooling off' period. This raises significant questions around how such an appointee could maintain the appearance of independence. Yet while one jurisdiction (BC), saw significant public debates over the appointment, in the other jurisdiction (NB), two successive appointments were met essentially with an eloquent silence. Using over 20 key informant interviews supported by document analysis, this research seeks to uncover the reasons why the two jurisdictions differed so greatly. In doing so, it addresses the research question: “How and why has auditor general independence been socially defined in two different ways in two different Canadian jurisdictions? And, further, what are the implications of these definitions for theory, legislation, ethics and professional practice?” The research concludes that the silence in New Brunswick was a result of ‘organizational illiteracy’. As such, it offers practical advice on structuring legislation and education to enhance the independence of auditors general in Canada.

Keywords: independence, auditor general, five threats to independence

Suggested Citation:

White, Brent, Constructing Independence (January 15, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley , I Splettstoesser-­-Hogeterp
Auditing and other assurance services: Canadian Tenth Edition Posted: 2007
C Belsey
Poststucturalism: A very short introduction Posted: 2002
B Cbc. ; N
Liberals question AG selection process Posted: 2010-06-26
Independence
Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
564,240
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies