Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rational Auditor and Moral Norms: The Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants – Lip Service or Self-Binding Agreement?

22 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016

Hansrudi Lenz

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

Since the public has vehemently debated financial scandals like Enron or WorldCom numerous articles asked for ethical responsibility from auditors. The financial scandals were also seen as ethical scandals. A Code of Ethics with moral content could be a potential remedy but the crucial question is: Why should a rational and egoistic auditor obey moral norms contained in a Code of Ethics? The paper discusses if moral norms and the Code of Ethics can be justified under the assumption that a Rational Egoist, i.e. a purely selfishoriented individual, has to be convinced. Furthermore, evidence is presented which shows that human behaviour is driven by a mixture of selfish and altruistic motives. For example altruistic sanctions can effectively discipline free-riders in public good experiments. The moral reputation of the auditing profession can be interpreted as an impure public good which has to be protected against free-riders within the profession. Exactly because the empirical evidence shows that the human nature is neither truly altruistic nor truly egoistic there is a need for moral norms in general or a “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants” in particular, otherwise they would be superfluous. In this sense the Code of Ethics is neither a pure lip-service nor a strict self-binding agreement: The truth lies between these two exterme positions.

Keywords: Code of Ethics, moral norms, rational auditor, public goods, moral reputation

Suggested Citation:

Lenz, Hansrudi, The Rational Auditor and Moral Norms: The Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants – Lip Service or Self-Binding Agreement? (December 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2717507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2717507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
490,153
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies