Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reaction to Auditors’ Going Concern Emphasis of Matter: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 38(2), pp. 27-55 (May 2019)

68 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2016 Last revised: 9 Sep 2024

Jean Bédard

Université Laval - École de comptabilité

Carl Brousseau

Université Laval - School of Accounting

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

Using a “natural experiment” provided by a change in Canadian auditing standards requiring an emphasis of matter paragraph in the auditor’s report (GC-EOM) when the notes to financial statements include a going concern uncertainty disclosure, this paper examines the incremental investor reaction to the auditor’s report over the related financial statement disclosure. Conditioning on the linguistic severity level of the going concern uncertainty note in the financial statements (weak and severe), we first document a negative price response to severe but not to weak uncertainty disclosures before the regulatory change. This implies that investors react to financial statement disclosures and account for their degree of interpretability in the absence of a GC-EOM. When the uncertainty disclosure is accompanied by a GC-EOM, we find incremental negative abnormal returns and lower abnormal trading volume for weak uncertainty disclosures. In contrast, for severe uncertainty disclosures accompanied by a GC-EOM, we find incremental negative abnormal returns only for firms with going concern disclosures in prior years. Collectively, these findings imply that an emphasis of matter paragraph in the auditor’s report can have incremental value to investors.

Keywords: going concern; auditor's report; emphasis of matter paragrap; perceived financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: M42, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bédard, Jean and Brousseau, Carl and Vanstraelen, Ann, Investor Reaction to Auditors’ Going Concern Emphasis of Matter: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (May 20, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 38(2), pp. 27-55 (May 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2719877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , P R Graul , J D Newton
Reporting Uncertainty and Assessment of Risk: Replication and Extension in a Canadian Setting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 372 - 382 Posted: 1986
A S Ahmed , R A Schneible , D E Stevens
An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Online Trading on Stock Price and Trading Volume Reactions to Earnings Announcements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 413 - 439 Posted: 2003
A Anandarajan , C Viger , A P Curatola
An Experimental Investigation of Alternative Going-Concern Reporting Formats: A Canadian Experience
Canadian Accounting Perspectives , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 162 Posted: 2002
E M Bamber , R A Stratton
The Information Content of the Uncertainty-Modified Audit Report: Evidence from Rank Loan Officers , volume 11 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
175,068
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies