Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Revolving Door Practice and Policy on Nonprofessional Investors' Perceptions of Auditor Independence

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 47, Issue 4, pp. 1-28.

29 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2016 Last revised: 10 Aug 2017

Reginald Wilson

University of Southern Mississippi

Date Written: March 27, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates whether an ex-auditor’s employment with an audit client impairs nonprofessional investors’ perceptions of auditor independence, and whether the strength of the United States (US) revolving door policy improves their perceptions of auditor independence. Despite nonprofessional investors owning over one-third of the US equity holdings, the literature has not examined how revolving door policy impacts their perceptions of auditor independence. Two between-subjects experiments examine these issues. The first experiment finds that investors perceive the ex-auditor’s integrity to be significant in explaining the firm’s decision to manage earnings, irrespective of the firm’s previous working relationship with the ex-auditor. The results from experiment two indicate that strengthening the revolving door policy above that of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ policy does not improve perceptions of auditor independence. Academics may be interested in triangulating the independence “in appearance” results of this study to the independence “in fact” results of other studies, since the Securities and Exchange Commission asserts that both facets of independence are equally important. The results may also be of interest to academics and practitioners, as prior research suggests that restricting auditors’ moves to management positions with the client impairs firms’ abilities to hire quality auditors.

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Reginald, The Impact of Revolving Door Practice and Policy on Nonprofessional Investors' Perceptions of Auditor Independence (March 27, 2017). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 47, Issue 4, pp. 1-28., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2721223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
L Abbott , V Brown , J Higgs
The effects of prior manager-auditor affiliation and PCAOB inspection reports on audit committee members' auditor recommendations
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Ahmad
The impact of ex-auditors' employment with audit clients on perceptions of auditor independence
Procedia -Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 172 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Serving the Public Interest: A New Conceptual Framework for Auditor Independence. The White Paper Posted: 1997
AU Section 230. Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work. Statements on Auditing Standards Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Kim Ittonen , Per Tronnes , Sami Vähämaa
Do Former Auditors on the Audit Committee Constrain Earnings Management? Evidence from the Banking Industry
47 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 31 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 532
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
436,942
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies