Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Firm Specialization on Earnings Management and Quality of Audit Work

Hegazy, M. Al Sabagh, A. and Handy, R. (2015). "The effect of audit firm specialization on earnings management and quality of audit work". Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 15 (4), pp.143-164

23 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2016

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Ahmed Al Sabagh

Cairo University

Rasha Hamdy

Cairo University

Date Written: October 27, 2015

Abstract

This paper aims at investigating the effect of industry specialization on the audit quality and earnings quality. It examines the relation between industry specialization and earnings quality, financial reporting quality, and audit quality. The research posits that industry specialization constrains earnings management. In addition, it hypothesized a positive relationship between industry specialization and financial reporting quality. An experiment was conducted in an audit firm with international affiliation in Egypt to test the research hypotheses. The results indicate that there is no significant difference between industry specialist auditors and non-specialists in constraining earnings management. In addition, findings support that financial reporting quality was significantly higher when specialists conducted the audit. The results provide empirical evidence consistent with the hypothesis that auditor with industry specialization improves audit quality. Finally, industry specialization enables auditors to realize the amendments in auditing standards better than non-specialists.

Keywords: Audit industry specialization, Audit quality, Earnings quality, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A. and Al Sabagh, Ahmed and Hamdy, Rasha, The Effect of Audit Firm Specialization on Earnings Management and Quality of Audit Work (October 27, 2015). Hegazy, M. Al Sabagh, A. and Handy, R. (2015). "The effect of audit firm specialization on earnings management and quality of audit work". Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 15 (4), pp.143-164, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2723531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Conflicts of interest in litigation services engagements Posted: 1993
S Albring , R Elder , J Zhou
Audit firm size, industry specialization and earnings management by initial public offering firms in the IPO year Posted: 2004
A Almutairi , K A Dunn , T Skamtz
Auditor tenure, auditor specialization, and information asymmetry
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 600 - 623 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,859
RANK
31,006
2 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies