Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Holdings and Their Impact on Audit Fees

51 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016

Samuel Benjamin

University of Otago; University of Waikato

Jayalakshmy Ramachandran

University of Nottingham - University of Nottingham, Malaysia Campus

Srikamaladevi Marathamuthu

Multimedia University (MMU)

Zul Mohamed

Universiti Tun Abdul Razak (UNIRAZAK)

Date Written: November 12, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we examine how auditors respond in terms of audit fees, to cash holdings that are a growing concern in corporate America. Holding everything else constant, we find that cash holdings are positively related to audit fees, reflecting that auditors’ react to the level of firms’ cash holdings, which is a source of agency costs. Additionally, our results indicate that cash holdings in firms with low growth opportunities induce auditors to raise audit fees. We also find that the audit fees-cash holdings relationship differs (1) between firms that are financially constrained and unconstrained and (2) between firms with high hedging and low hedging needs. In addition, we assess how corporate governance quality influences audit fee sensitivity to cash holdings under varying dimensions of growth opportunities, financial constraints and hedging needs and we find evidence that, on average, cash holdings in the presence of higher/lower shareholders’ rights lead to higher/lower audit fees.

Keywords: audit fees; cash holdings; growth opportunities; financial constraints; hedging needs; corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, G3

Suggested Citation:

Benjamin, Samuel and Ramachandran, Jayalakshmy and Marathamuthu, M. Srikamaladevi and Mohamed, Zulkifflee Mohamed, Cash Holdings and Their Impact on Audit Fees (November 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2723236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2723236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Calia
Three resolutions CFOs must make for Posted: 2013
J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T R Neal , R A Riley , Jr
Board characteristics and audit fees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 365 - 384 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B Casselman
Companies shun investment, hoard cash. The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2011-09-17
H W H Chan , Y Lu , H F Zhang
The effect of financial constraints, investment policy, product market competition and corporate governance
Accounting and Finance , volume 53 , p. 339 - 366 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Noha Elberry
Cash holdings impact on firm investment decisions: evidence from Egypt, UK and USA
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2025
Crossref
Mohammad Mohammadi , Behzad Kardan , Mahdi Salehi
The relationship between cash holdings, investment opportunities and financial constraint with audit fees
Asian Journal of Accounting Research , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 15 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,804
RANK
125,413
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies