Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prediction versus Inducement and the Informational Efficiency of Going Concern Opinions

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-01

49 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2016

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Richard Hahn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Andrei Kovrijnykh

Arizona State University (ASU)

Frank Zhou

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 31, 2016

Abstract

We examine two distinct channels through which going concern opinions can be associated with the likelihood of bankruptcy: auditors have better access to information about their clients' bankruptcy risk and going concern opinions directly induce bankruptcies. Using a bivariate probit model that addresses omitted variable bias arising from auditors' additional information, we find support for both the information and inducement channels. The direct inducement effect of receiving a going concern opinion is a 1.5 percentage point increase in the probability of bankruptcy. Despite the direct effect acting as a "self-fulfilling" prophecy, going concern opinions do not predict more bankruptcies than a statistical model based solely on observable data, which suggests that auditors do not efficiently use information when generating going concern opinions.

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph and Hahn, Richard and Kovrijnykh, Andrei and Zhou, Frank, Prediction versus Inducement and the Informational Efficiency of Going Concern Opinions (January 31, 2016). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern: Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 34
AICPA Posted: 1988
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
An evaluation of instrumental variable strategies for estimating the effects of catholic schooling
Journal of Human Resources , volume 60 , p. 791 - 821 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Blay , M Geiger
Auditor fees and auditor independence: Evidence from going concern reporting decisions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 579 - 606 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Blay , M Geiger , D North
The auditor's going-concern opinion as a communication of risk
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 30 , p. 77 - 102 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,502
RANK
74,066
9 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies