Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Skeptical Judgment with Skeptical Action: Consideration of Client Identification and Professional Commitment

47 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2016 Last revised: 25 Sep 2016

Marc Ortegren

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville

Tom Downen

University of North Carolina Wilmington

Sarah Kim

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Date Written: February 4, 2016

Abstract

Professional skepticism is of major concern in the auditing profession. This study evaluates how skeptical judgment translates into skeptical action, and assesses the influence of client identification and professional commitment on the link between skeptical judgment and skeptical action. Despite the importance of taking action in demonstrating skepticism, little research has investigated under what circumstances auditors may be more or less likely to act on skeptical judgments. Using 124 senior auditors as participants, we find that skeptical action is indeed less likely overall than skeptical judgment. We also find that higher professional commitment can improve the link between skeptical judgment and skeptical action; contrary to our expectation, we find no evidence that higher client identification reduces the link between skeptical judgment and skeptical action. Our findings have important implications for auditing research and practice.

Keywords: professional skepticism, client identification, professional commitment, skeptical judgment, skeptical action

Suggested Citation:

Ortegren, Marc and Downen, Tom and Kim, Sarah, Linking Skeptical Judgment with Skeptical Action: Consideration of Client Identification and Professional Commitment (February 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Due care in the performance of work
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) , issue 1 Posted: 1997
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. AU Section 316 Posted: 2007
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Crossref
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Attitude-behavior relations: A theoretical analysis and review of empirical research
Psychological Bulletin , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 888 - 918 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,001
RANK
194,576
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies