Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Asymmetric Market Reaction of Stockholders and Bondholders to the Implementation of Early-Warnings Pre Going Concern Opinion

34 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2016

Keren Bar-Hava

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Roi Katz

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: February 9, 2016

Abstract

Auditing standards requiring auditors to issue going concern opinions (GCOs) have existed for several decades. The FASB exposure draft of June 2013 suggests early disclosures of uncertainties about an entity’s ability to continue as going concerns (GCUs). The FASB’s board argues that the proposed amendments would improve the timeliness and the quality of disclosures of going concern opinions. In Israel, since 2008, about 70% of the publicly traded companies implemented the two-phase models for going concern auditors’ opinions. We utilize a hand-collected dataset of 143 GCOs of publicly traded companies for the years 2007-2013. We examine the stockholders’ and bondholders’ reactions to GCOs preceded by early warnings of uncertainty (GCUs) compared to companies where the GCO disclosure tracks a “clean” opinion. The findings indicate that the equity and debt market reacts to GCUs in a negative and economically significant fashion. In addition, we find that GCUs reduce the negative market reaction to GCOs. This finding indicates that GCU announcements improve the timing and quality of the financial statement disclosure.

Keywords: Going-concern Uncertainty; International Auditing Standards; International Auditing Practices; Audit opinions; Disclaimer of opinion; Financial condition; Short-term market reaction

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Bar-Hava, Keren and Katz, Roi, The Asymmetric Market Reaction of Stockholders and Bondholders to the Implementation of Early-Warnings Pre Going Concern Opinion (February 9, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2729774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Al-Thuneibat , B A Khamees , N A Al-Fayoumi
The Effect of Qualified Auditors' Opinions on Share Prices: Evidence from Jordan
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Behn , S Kaplan , K Krumwiede
Further Evidence on the Auditor's GoingConcern Report: The Influence of Management Plans
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 20 , p. 13 - 28 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Bryan , S Tiras , C Weatley
Do Going Concern Opinions Serve as Early Warnings of Financial Collapse Posted: 2005
Li Chan
Does Client Importance Affect Auditor Independence at the Office Level? Empirical Evidence from Going-Concern Opinions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 201 - 230 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,991
RANK
342,603
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies