Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of External Audit Fees in Zimbabwe Listed Companies

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Volume 3, Issue 10

6 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2016

Titshabona Ncube

Lupane State University

Date Written: October 10, 2014

Abstract

This explanatory study seeks to determine the factors which influence the external audit fees charged by audit firms that audit listed companies in Zimbabwe. The study considers variables that represent audit client size, complexity and riskiness. The study also includes qualitative factors which include audit firm size and type of audit opinion. A sample of 41 companies listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange is selected and regression analysis is performed on the dependent and independent variables. The results of the study indicates that total assets and revenue significantly affect the external audit fee at the 5% level and that the number of employees, audit firm size and audit opinion are not significant determinants of audit fees in Zimbabwe listed companies. This study adds to the body of literature on audit fee determinants from a developing country and an economy emerging from a long period of economic decline.

Keywords: external audit fee, audit client size, determinants, audit client complexity, riskiness

Suggested Citation:

Ncube, Titshabona, The Determinants of External Audit Fees in Zimbabwe Listed Companies (October 10, 2014). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Volume 3, Issue 10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Joseph V. Carcello , Dana R. Hermanson , Terry L. Neal , Richard A. Riley
Board Characteristics and Audit Fees
Pages: 38 Posted: 12 Oct 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Riley
Board Characteristics and Audit Fees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 84 Posted: 2002
P Chan , M Ezzaniel , D Gwilliam
Determinants of audit fees for quoted UK companies
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 20 , issue 6 , p. 765 - 86 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P K Chaney , D Jeter , L Shivakumar
Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
397,014
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies