Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Dyad Formation at the Top-Level of Audit Teams

64 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2016 Last revised: 16 May 2019

Benedikt Downar

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants and consequences of forming dyads at the top level of audit teams, i.e., dyads between concurring and lead auditor. We apply the sociological theory of homophily, i.e., the implicit preference for similar others, to hierarchically structured auditor dyads. Semi-structured interviews with highly experienced auditors show that concurring auditors enjoy some autonomy in selecting the lead auditor, providing opportunities for homophily to matter. Our regression analyses reveal that sharing the same dialect and gender increases the likelihood of dyad formation beyond what one would expect based on the characteristics of the pool of available auditors. Further, we observe that forming auditor dyads sharing the same age is avoided, suggesting that the need to establish a legitimate hierarchical relationship through social differentiation represents a boundary condition for homophily. Testing for the consequences of auditor dyad formation using an instrumental variable approach, we find that auditor dyads sharing the same dialect provide lower audit quality. We conclude that homophily matters in auditor dyad formation with potentially adverse consequences for audit quality.

Keywords: homophily; distancing; auditor dyad; concurring auditor; lead auditor

Suggested Citation:

Downar, Benedikt and Ernstberger, Jürgen and Koch, Christopher, Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Dyad Formation at the Top-Level of Audit Teams (April 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
E I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding, and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
S Asch
Effects of group pressure upon the modification and distortion of judgement
Groups, Leadership, and Mean , p. 177 - 190 Posted: 1951
O Bandiera , I Barankay , I Rasul
Social Connections and Incentives in the Workplace: Evidence From Personnel Data
Econometrica , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 1047 - 1094 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Bauernschuster , O Falck , S Heblich , J Suedekum , A Lameli
Why are educated and risk-loving persons more mobile across regions
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 69 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Benedikt Downar , Jürgen Ernstberger , Christopher Koch , Martin Prott
Does practitioner research help auditors to provide higher audit quality and improve their reputation?
47 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 11 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 309
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,088
RANK
222,076
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies