Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust is Good, Control is Better: Creating Secure Clouds by Continuous Auditing

IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2016

Sebastian Lins

University of Cologne

Stephan Schneider

University of Cologne

Ali Sunyaev

University of Cologne; Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 27, 2016

Abstract

Cloud service certifications (CSC) attempt to assure a high level of security and compliance. However, considering that cloud services are part of an ever-changing environment, multi-year validity periods may put in doubt reliability of such certifications. We argue that continuous auditing (CA) of selected certification criteria is required to assure continuously reliable and secure cloud services, and thereby increase trustworthiness of certifications. CA of cloud services is still in its infancy, thus, we conducted a thorough literature review, interviews, and workshops with practitioners to conceptualize an architecture for continuous cloud service auditing. Our study shows that various criteria should be continuously audited. Yet, we reveal that most of existing methodologies are not applicable for third party auditing purposes. Therefore, we propose a conceptual CA architecture, and highlight important components and processes that have to be implemented. Finally, we discuss benefits and challenges that have to be tackled to diffuse the concept of continuous cloud service auditing. We contribute to knowledge and practice by providing applicable internal and third party auditing methodologies for auditors and providers, linked together in a conceptual architecture. Further on, we provide groundings for future research to implement CA in cloud service contexts.

Keywords: certification, cloud computing, continuous auditing

Suggested Citation:

Lins, Sebastian and Schneider, Stephan and Sunyaev, Ali, Trust is Good, Control is Better: Creating Secure Clouds by Continuous Auditing (January 27, 2016). IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2734086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
S Subashini , V Kavitha
A survey on security issues in service delivery models of cloud computing
J Netw Comput App , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K M Khan , Q Malluhi
Trust in Cloud Services: Providing More Controls to Clients
Computer , volume 46 , issue 7 , p. 94 - 96 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Schneider , A Sunyaev
Determinant factors of cloudsourcing decisions
Journal of Information Technology Posted: 2014
A Sunyaev , S Schneider
Cloud services certification
Commun ACM , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 36 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
502,214
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies