Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Auditor's Approach to Subsequent Events: Insights from the Academic Literature

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 32, No. S1, 2013

Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Janne Chung

York University - Schulich School of Business

Charles P. Cullinan

Bryant University

Michele Lynn Frank

Miami University of Ohio; University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

James H. Long

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Jennifer M Mueller

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Dennis O'Reilly

East Carolina University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Approximately one-third of the PCAOB’s inspection reports and several SEC enforcement releases identify deficiencies in the audit of subsequent events (SEs). Despite these issues, little research has been conducted to understand how and why these deficiencies occur. This paper integrates the psychology and behavioral accounting literatures to develop a model of the factors that influence the effectiveness of SE audit procedures. The model suggests that the effectiveness of these procedures is largely influenced by the auditor’s cognitive processing mode, which is initially affected by environmental, individual, and task-specific factors. Our model provides a theoretical basis for future research into the causes of these deficiencies and suggests potential mitigating strategies that auditors can employ to improve the effectiveness of the audit of SEs. We conclude with a discussion of the implications arising from the model for professionals, standard setters, and researchers.

Keywords: contextual factors, cognitive processing strategies, heuristics and biases, subsequent events judgment process

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Janne and Cullinan, Charles P. and Frank, Michele Lynn and Frank, Michele Lynn and Long, James H. and Mueller, Jennifer M and O'Reilly, Dennis, The Auditor's Approach to Subsequent Events: Insights from the Academic Literature (2013). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 32, No. S1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735512
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies