Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increased Materiality Judgments in Financial Accounting and External Audit. A Critical Comparison between German and International Standard Setting

International Journal of Critical Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Cristina Müller-Burmeister

University of Hamburg

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: November 20, 2015

Abstract

The materiality principle supports the information function of financial accounting as to what information could usefully be published to enhance investors’ decisions. Therefore, materiality guides the entity preparing the accounts to present relevant financial information and to prevent information overload. This decision is mostly subjective and is based primarily on the individual’s judgement in applying vague legal concepts. Recent publications and studies, such as those by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), highlight a wide variation of applications in practice. This could result in a greater expectation gap between management information and individuals’ understanding. The new EU accounting directive 2013/34/EU standardizes materiality in order to emphasize its meaning for disclosure purposes and to harmonize with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, the German legislator didn’t change the German Commercial Code (GCC) and didn’t introduce an explicit materiality principle. Moreover, the new audit regulation (EU) No 537/2014 requires the disclosure of the quantitative level of materiality used by the auditors in the audit report. Guidelines offered through principle-based auditing standards remain inadequate, although they are intended to provide clearly defined rules on how to deal with materiality and avoid boilerplate checklists. Our paper focuses on a conceptual comparison of materiality between the GCC and IFRS/ISA for accounting and auditing purposes, and on the implications for eliminating the challenge involved in information overload.

Keywords: Financial Accounting; External Audit; Materiality Principle

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Müller-Burmeister, Cristina and Velte, Patrick, Increased Materiality Judgments in Financial Accounting and External Audit. A Critical Comparison between German and International Standard Setting (November 20, 2015). International Journal of Critical Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735829
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies