Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Joint Audits a Proper Instrument for Increased Audit Quality?

British Journal of Applied Science & Technology, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Jamel Azibi

Law Faculty, Management and Economics Science of Jendouba

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: February 4, 2015

Abstract

Joint audits are recently controversial discussed to increase audit quality and decrease audit market concentration in Europe, complementing the existing and future rotation rules by the 8th EC directive. First, this article presents a theoretical foundation of joint audits. In this context, the main influences on low balling are presented. The link between joint audits and audit quality is still controversial. Then, the main results of empirical research on joint audit are focused. A clear positive link between joint audits and audit quality cannot be found, but there is strong evidence for higher audit costs which could lead to an increased price competition. Insofar, a lower audit market concentration by joint audits is not generally connected with higher audit quality, because there are many corporate governance interactions. To test this hypothesis, we use a sample of 306 Germany and French companies between 2008 and 2012. Empirical results demonstrate unclear effect of the joint audit on audit quality in these two countries.

Keywords: External Audit; Joint Audit; Audit Quality; Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Azibi, Jamel and Velte, Patrick, Are Joint Audits a Proper Instrument for Increased Audit Quality? (February 4, 2015). British Journal of Applied Science & Technology, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735826
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies