Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Lowballing Impair Audit Quality? Evidence from Client Accruals Surrounding Analyst Forecasts

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 34, No. 6, 2015

Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Jonathan D. Stanley

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Duane M. Brandon

Auburn University

Jeffrey J. McMillan

Clemson University - College of Business and Behavioral Science

Date Written: November 2015

Abstract

The pricing of initial audit engagements has long been of interest to regulators because of audit quality concerns speculated to arise with lowball pricing tactics. However, there has been very little empirical investigation specifically aimed at understanding the link between audit fees and audit quality on new engagements. We examine a sample of initial engagements spanning 2000–2009 and find evidence suggesting that the magnitude of initial engagement discounting is positively associated with audit clients’ ability to meet analyst forecasts using discretionary accruals. Additional analysis reveals that this effect is more pronounced before the passage of SOX. Further examination of the post-SOX period shows the effect is present in the latter half of our sample (2006–2009) but not in the years immediately following the passage of SOX (2002–2005). Additional supplemental tests suggest that the primary results are driven more by time and/or budget pressures than impaired independence. Overall, we interpret these results as consistent with longstanding concerns surrounding auditor lowballing and discuss the regulatory and practical implications for the audit profession with respect to the pricing and monitoring of new audit engagements.

Keywords: audit fees, audit quality, fee discounts, independence, lowballing

Suggested Citation:

Stanley, Jonathan D. and Brandon, Duane M. and McMillan, Jeffrey J., Does Lowballing Impair Audit Quality? Evidence from Client Accruals Surrounding Analyst Forecasts (November 2015). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 34, No. 6, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736515
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,688
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies