Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Adopting an Expanded Auditor's Report in the United Kingdom

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 18-1

81 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2018

Elizabeth F. Gutierrez

Universidad de Chile

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Kay Tatum

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: April 23, 2018

Abstract

The United Kingdom has recently required an expanded auditor’s report for large public companies. We investigate whether this requirement is associated with an increase in the decision usefulness of the auditor’s report and whether it has indirect consequences on audit fees and quality. Our analyses cover four years surrounding the changes, including companies that transitioned to the new regime and companies that continued issuing the previous report’s format. We do not find evidence that the regulatory change significantly affected investors’ reaction to the release of auditors’ reports, audit fees, or audit quality. Furthermore, we do not find that variation in the expanded reports’ content has affected these outcomes. Although companies with long reports pay comparatively higher fees, the mere increase in disclosure does not affect audit fees or quality. Collectively, our evidence is consistent with the expanded auditor’s report providing little incremental information to investors.

Keywords: Auditor's report, audit quality, audit fees, market reaction

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Elizabeth F. and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Tatum, Kay and Vulcheva, Maria, Consequences of Adopting an Expanded Auditor's Report in the United Kingdom (April 23, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 18-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2741174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
K Allen
FTSE 100 and European indices record best annual rise since 2009. The Guardian Posted: 2013-12
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Ann G. Backof , Kendall O. Bowlin , Brian Matthew Goodson
The Importance of Clarification of Auditors’ Responsibilities Under the New Audit Reporting Standards
Pages: 45 Posted: 6 Jun 2014 Last revised: 27 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,737
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,218
RANK
11,222
95 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies