Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Impact of Management Expressed Confidence and Response Timing on Auditor Professional Skepticism in Client Email Inquiries

Managerial Auditing Journal (2016)

37 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2016 Last revised: 11 Nov 2018

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 9, 2016

Abstract

Purpose - While academic research has been conducted on auditors’ ability to exercise professional skepticism in face-to-face client interviews, little is known about auditors’ application of professional skepticism in email communication with the client. The purpose of this paper is to examine the factors that impact auditor professional skepticism during client inquiries conducted through email.

Design/methodology/approach - A 2X2 between-subjects experiment was conducted with 69 undergraduate and graduate auditing students as surrogates for auditors. The experimental design crossed two levels of client expressed confidence (high and low) and two levels of client response timing to the auditor’s email inquiry (earlier than expected and later than expected).

Findings - Results indicate management expressed confidence moderates the influence of management response timing on auditor professional skepticism and that auditor perceptions of client credibility mediate this interactive effect. When the client’s response is low in confidence, auditors perceive a later than expected response from the manager as less credible than an earlier than expected response, which leads to less reliance on management explanations, which signifies more skepticism. However, when confidence is high, response timing does not impact perceptions of the client’s credibility.

Practical implications - The results imply that junior auditors should be vigilant of how communication cues in client emails may impact their judgments. Even though management response timing and expressed confidence should not influence auditor skepticism per se, auditors seem vary their level of skepticism with the timing of the client’s response when client confidence is low but not when client confidence is high despite the information content of the client’s response being held constant.

Originality/value - This study (1) contributes to the literature on professional skepticism by addressing the PCAOB’s concerns about the need for auditors to exercise more professional skepticism in practice, particularly in an environment in which computer-mediated communication is increasing at a fast pace; and (2) assists practitioners in better understanding the factors that influence the degree of skepticism auditors exercise when collecting audit evidence through email. The study should be of interest to audit firms as it provides evidence on whether auditors use nonverbal cues such as chronemics, or time‐related messages, in email communication to judge management and evidence reliability and credibility.

Keywords: Auditing, Professional Skepticism, Client Inquiries, Email Communication, Chronemics

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Zimmerman, Aleksandra, The Joint Impact of Management Expressed Confidence and Response Timing on Auditor Professional Skepticism in Client Email Inquiries (March 9, 2016). Managerial Auditing Journal (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
S Aghazadeh , J Joe
How Management's Expressions of Confidence Influence Audit Judgment Posted: 2015
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. AU Section 316
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2007
R Baron , D Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
RANK
841,621
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies