Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Joint Audit and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Italian SMEs

International Journal of Business Research and Development [IJBRD], vol. 5. no. 1, pp. 1-22, 2016

22 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2016

Marco Bisogno

University of Salerno (Italy)

Roberto De Luca

University of Salerno (Italy)

Date Written: March 11, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to analyze the effect of a joint audit system on the quality of a firm’s financial statements, investigating the association between the presence of a double auditor and the occurrence of small positive earnings, which can be considered the consequence of earnings management practices and a signal of poor earnings quality. Furthermore, we develop a second research question in order to assess the factors that determine the choice of voluntarily resorting to a joint audit system. This paper uses a sample of Italian industrial non-listed SMEs, stratified in order to fulfill certain requirements (in terms of asset value, turnover and number of employees) that make it mandatory to appoint at least one audit body (the statutory board) according to the Italian law. Logistic regression models have been used to test the research hypotheses. The main finding is the confirmation that a joint audit system does positively affect earnings quality and the reliability of firms’ financial statements. Regarding the decision to be audited by two different auditors, the main determinants are more linked to the size and organizational complexity of the firm than to agency conflicts or leverage ratio.

Keywords: Audit quality, Joint audit, Financial reporting quality, Earnings management, Small positive earnings

Suggested Citation:

Bisogno, Marco and De Luca, Roberto, Voluntary Joint Audit and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Italian SMEs (March 11, 2016). International Journal of Business Research and Development [IJBRD], vol. 5. no. 1, pp. 1-22, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2746450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Abdel-Khalik
Why Do Private Companies Demand Auditing? The Case for Loss Control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 8 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Amendola , M Bisogno , M Restaino , L Sensini
Forecasting corporate bankruptcy: empirical evidence on Italian data
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 294 - 312 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Andrè , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Audit fees, big four premium and institutional settings: The devil is in the details! Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 69 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,837
RANK
93,512
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies