Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Relation between Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-26

55 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2016 Last revised: 4 Apr 2016

Lisa Milici Gaynor

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Andrea Seaton Kelton

Wake Forest University - Babcock Graduate School of Management and Wayne Calloway School of Business and Accountancy

Molly Mercer

DePaul University

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: March 15, 2016

Abstract

A primary goal of both financial reporting research and audit research is to understand the determinants of quality, and researchers in both areas have identified a wide set of variables that enhance or impair quality. In this paper, we define financial reporting quality and audit quality and use a person/task/environment framework to summarize prior findings on the determinants of each. We use this framework to discuss the links between the financial reporting and audit academic literatures and highlight the recursive relation between financial reporting quality and audit quality. Our discussion provides insights and suggestions on how financial reporting and audit researchers can learn from each other to improve our collective understanding of financial reporting and audit quality. Using this framework, we also identify opportunities for future research.

Keywords: Financial reporting quality, audit quality, quality proxies, quality determinants

Suggested Citation:

Gaynor, Lisa Milici and Kelton, Andrea Seaton and Mercer, Molly and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Understanding the Relation between Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality (March 15, 2016). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
176 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,449
RANK
8,545
31 Citations
176 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies