Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does practitioner research help auditors to provide higher audit quality and improve their reputation?

47 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2016 Last revised: 11 Jul 2022

Benedikt Downar

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Martin Prott

Technical University of Munich

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates why auditors engage in practitioner research and whether these auditors subsequently provide higher audit quality and increase their reputation. Based on the theory of domain learning as well as insights from interviews, we argue that engaging in practitioner research could help auditors to acquire expertise relevant for performing the audit. Further, we draw on signaling theory and argue that this engagement might also contribute to the development of auditors’ reputation. We use the German setting for our study, where many auditors write professional articles, books and book chapters. We observe that various motivational and support factors are important determinants for writing publications. We find that having prior publications is associated with higher audit quality, i.e., lower absolute discretionary accruals and a lower likelihood of restatements. Finally, we provide indications that having prior publications help auditors to develop their reputation, i.e., achieving growth in their client portfolio.

Keywords: auditor expertise; model of domain learning; audit quality; auditor reputation

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Downar, Benedikt and Ernstberger, Jürgen and Koch, Christopher and Prott, Martin, Does practitioner research help auditors to provide higher audit quality and improve their reputation? (July 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2749411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2749411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
P A Alexander , M L Maehr , P R Pintrich
Mapping the multidimensional nature of domain learning: The interplay of cognitive, motivational, and strategic forces
Advances in motivation and achievement , p. 213 - 250 Posted: 1997
P A Alexander
The development of expertise: The journey from acclimation to proficiency
Educational Researcher , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 10 - 14 Posted: 2003
Arthur , W Bennett , W Stanush , P L Mcnelly , T L
Factors that influence skill decay and retention: A quantitative review and analysis. Human Performance , volume 11 , p. 57 - 101 Posted: 1998
M F Baumann , N V S Ratzinger-Sakel
The time dependence of audit firm alumni effects: Evidence from Audit Committees
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 130 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,296
RANK
224,403
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies