Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delivering the 'Tough Message': Moderators of Subordinate Auditors’ Reactions to Feedback

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 24 Mar 2018

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 13, 2018

Abstract

The audit review process is a key quality control mechanism. Recent evidence from practice suggests that regulatory risk has made reviews more critical, and audit supervisors are struggling with how to effectively deliver the “tough message”. We contribute to the audit review literature by providing an in-depth understanding of the subordinate’s perspective, focusing on the understudied topic of negative feedback and factors that might moderate its effects. We investigate these issues using an experiential questionnaire soliciting subordinate auditors’ reactions to highly salient actual review experiences. We find both adverse and beneficial reactions to more negative feedback, including worse attitudes toward coaching relationships, more attempts to manage supervisors’ impressions, but greater performance improvement efforts. These reactions are moderated by the subordinate auditor’s feedback orientation (i.e., receptivity), and sometimes by the supervisor’s goal framing (i.e., emphasis on learning versus performance). Collectively, participants more often chose engagement over workpaper reviews to represent their most salient experiences, and some results differ between these review contexts. Qualitative analysis identifies both similarities and differences in key attributes of these review types. These results are important, as the audit review literature predominately considers workpaper review, and no study compares the two review contexts.

Keywords: Audit review, feedback sign, feedback orientation, goal framing, workpaper review, engagement review

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Bedard, Jean C., Delivering the 'Tough Message': Moderators of Subordinate Auditors’ Reactions to Feedback (February 13, 2018). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,686
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies