Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors and Client Investment Efficiency

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 25 May 2016

Gil S. Bae

Korea University - Department of Accounting

Seung Uk Choi

Korea University - Department of Accounting

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Date Written: March 7, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the relation between auditors and their client’s investment efficiency. We hypothesize and find that auditor’s characteristics that proxy for an auditor’s knowledge and resources are associated with higher client investment efficiency, after controlling for the auditor’s effect on financial reporting quality. This result is consistent with auditor’s providing informational advantages to their clients in a generalized investment setting. We find that this auditor-effect is more pronounced for clients who have a higher demand for information as measured by client size, industry competition and client complexity. The effect is also more pronounced for clients of longer-tenured auditors. Overall, the results suggest auditors may be one component to the management information environment and as such appear to influence capital investment behavior.

Keywords: Auditors, Investment Efficiency, Auditor Incentives

JEL Classification: G31, M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Gil Soo and Choi, Seung Uk and Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Lamoreaux, Phillip T., Auditors and Client Investment Efficiency (March 7, 2016). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754394
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies