Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Critical Systems Thinking to Performance Auditing Practice at the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution: Issues and Challenges

Systems Research and Behavioral Science Journal, Volume 33, Issue 1, 2016

Posted: 29 Mar 2016

Agus Bambang Irawan

Independent

Janet J McIntyre

Flinders University

Date Written: March 29, 2016

Abstract

The paper explores the reframing of performance auditing practice based on a critical systemic approach using critical systems heuristics or ‘if-then’ thinking. The critical systems heuristics approach is applied to enhance public accountability in Indonesia. The paper aims to apply critical systemic thinking to the following area of concern: How can accountability be enhanced? A case is made for developing and extending current performance auditing processes to take into account well-being stocks for current and future generations in Indonesia. The aim is to discuss the current challenges facing auditing and to suggest alternatives in order to make some policy suggestions as to how to reframe the performance auditing practice with regard to the following: (i) to what extent the environmental aspect on performance auditing is perceived by the auditors and (ii) how the current practice of performance auditing could be improved to promote better accountability? Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Keywords: Performance Audit, Critical Systems Thinking, Expanded Pragmatism, Supreme Audit Institution

JEL Classification: M49, Z00

Suggested Citation:

Irawan, Agus Bambang and McIntyre, Janet J, Application of Critical Systems Thinking to Performance Auditing Practice at the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution: Issues and Challenges (March 29, 2016). Systems Research and Behavioral Science Journal, Volume 33, Issue 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755891
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Anthropology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies