Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Switch Up: An Examination of Changes in Earnings Management after Receiving SEC Comment Letters

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 37, No. 2, 2020: 917-944

Posted: 10 Apr 2016 Last revised: 22 Jun 2020

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Bret A. Johnson

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

E. Scott Johnson

Vanderbilt University

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2019

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has long asserted that earnings management practices result in adverse consequences for investors. We examine whether SEC oversight affects firms’ accounting quality in terms of earnings management trade-offs. We expect that increased firm-specific regulatory scrutiny, in the form of an SEC comment letter, will induce management to switch from accrual-based earnings management (AEM), which is a main focus of the SEC, to real-activities-based earnings management (REM), which is not likely to be commented on in the SEC’s review process. Consistent with our predictions, we find that AEM is lower and REM is higher following the receipt of a comment letter, relative to non-comment-letter years and a propensity-score-matched sample of non-comment-letter firms. However, we do not find a significant difference in total earnings management (i.e., the sum of AEM and REM), suggesting that the higher REM acts as a substitute for lower AEM activity. We further find that our results are driven by accounting comments relating to estimates and accruals and not by classification-only comments, which suggests that a comment letter that does not question specific issues associated with estimates and accruals is not a strong enough signal to induce the firm to change earnings management behavior. Additionally, the shift to REM is attenuated for firms with high institutional ownership. These results collectively suggest that the comment letter process effectively constrains AEM but has the unintended consequence of firms, on average, switching to REM.

Keywords: accruals-based earnings management; comment letter; filing review process; real earnings management; SEC

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Johnson, Bret A. and Johnson, E. Scott and Lisic, Ling Lei, The Switch Up: An Examination of Changes in Earnings Management after Receiving SEC Comment Letters (May 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 37, No. 2, 2020: 917-944, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2760638
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,638
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies