Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Outcome Effect and Professional Skepticism

The Accounting Review, November 2016

Posted: 9 Apr 2016

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Scott B. Jackson

University of South Carolina

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

Bryan W. Stewart

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 7, 2016

Abstract

Despite the importance placed on professional skepticism by the accounting profession and regulators, the failure of auditors to exercise an appropriate level of skepticism continues to be a global issue. We experimentally test a potential barrier to skepticism. We find that outcome knowledge biases supervisors’ evaluations of skeptical behavior. Holding a staff member’s skeptical judgments and acts constant, superiors on the engagement team evaluate the staff’s skeptical behavior based on whether the staff’s investigation of an issue ultimately identifies a misstatement. Our evidence suggests that evaluators penalize auditors who employ an appropriate level of skepticism, but do not identify a misstatement. Although consultation with their superior while exercising skepticism improved staff auditors’ performance evaluations, consultation did not effectively mitigate the outcome effect on their evaluations. Last, we observe that auditors in the field anticipate that their superiors will be influenced by outcome knowledge when they evaluate their skeptical behavior. Collectively, our results depict an evaluation system that may inadvertently discourage skepticism amongst auditors in the field.

Keywords: audit, evaluation, hindsight bias, outcome effect, professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Jackson, Scott B. and Schaefer, Tammie Rech and Stewart, Bryan W., The Outcome Effect and Professional Skepticism (April 7, 2016). The Accounting Review, November 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760417
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies