Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prompting the Benefit of the Doubt: The Joint Effect of Auditor-Client Social Bonds and Measurement Uncertainty on Audit Adjustments

Journal of Accounting Research 55 (4): 963-994, 2017

48 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2016 Last revised: 5 Sep 2017

Steven J. Kachelmeier

University of Texas at Austin

Ben W. Van Landuyt

University of Arizona

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 3, 2017

Abstract

We design an incentivized experiment to test whether measurement uncertainty elevates the risk that social bonds between auditors and reporters compromise audit adjustments. Results indicate that, when audit evidence is characterized by some residual uncertainty, the adjustments our auditor-participants require are sensitive to whether auditors have an opportunity to form a modest but friendly social bond with reporters. In contrast, although auditors do not adjust fully even when misstatements are known with certainty, social bonding has no effect in this scenario. Accordingly, our experiment contributes beyond the main effects of social bonding and measurement uncertainty demonstrated in prior research by showing that these forces interact. A practical implication is that regulators and practitioners should consider both the technical and the social challenges facing audits of complex estimates.

Keywords: auditor independence, social bonds, measurement uncertainty, accounting estimates, specialists, leniency, social identity, experimental economics

JEL Classification: C92, D81, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kachelmeier, Steven J. and Van Landuyt, Ben W., Prompting the Benefit of the Doubt: The Joint Effect of Auditor-Client Social Bonds and Measurement Uncertainty on Audit Adjustments (March 3, 2017). Journal of Accounting Research 55 (4): 963-994, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2760091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
B E S H Ashforth , Harrison
G And K , Corley
Identification in Organizations: An Examination of Four Fundamental Questions
Journal of Management , volume 34 , p. 325 - 74 Posted: 2008
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' Identification with Their Clients and Its Effect on Auditors' Objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Bauer
The Effects of Client Identity Strength and Professional Identity Salience on Auditor Judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , p. 95 - 114 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,697
RANK
153,575
22 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies