Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance Costs and Book-Tax Conformity: Evidence from Audit Fees and Audit Quality

50 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2016

Kathleen Bakarich

Hofstra University - Department of Accounting, Taxation and Legal Studies in Business

Jon N. Kerr

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 8, 2016

Abstract

The decade-long debate on required book-tax conformity has centered on three areas: the information content of earnings, the incentive to engage in earnings management, and the costs of compliance. While the first two have been studied extensively, studies on the effect that conformity may have on compliance costs are limited to estimates of the effect that perfect conformity will have on tax-related compliance costs, a near tautology. This lack of research is perhaps attributable to the relative invariance in conformity within the United States and the relative unavailability of compliance-related data outside the United States. This study overcomes those limitations and fills the gap in the extant research by using an international sample of firms with manually collected audit fee data. We focus on audit fees as it is a more economically significant compliance cost with available data and where the effect of book-tax conformity has tension. Test results show that increased conformity is associated with greater audit fees. This provides evidence that the hypothesized decreases in tax-related compliance costs may be offset by increases in audit fees, implying that the actual reduction in compliance costs may be lower than previously thought. The results of a difference-in-differences test using the adoption of IFRS for consolidated purposes only as an exogenous shock to book-tax divergence shows consistent results and supports a causal prediction. We also find evidence that higher conformity is associated with higher fees paid for auditor-provided tax service, an increased likelihood the firm chooses its auditor to provide tax services, and higher audit quality.

Keywords: book-tax conformity, audit fees, audit quality, APTS, IFRS adoption, international

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bakarich, Kathleen and Kerr, Jon N., Compliance Costs and Book-Tax Conformity: Evidence from Audit Fees and Audit Quality (April 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specic factors related to nancial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash ows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private rms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
221,315
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies