Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Information in Audit Reports

Global Journal of Management and Business Research: Accounting and Auditing, 2014

11 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2016

Flávia Verônica Jacques

FURG

Clea Beatriz Macagnan

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (Unisinos), Unisinos Business School; Visiting Professor

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

This study aimed to determine if the level of information included in audit reports was related to the average stock value of companies as listed in the Brazilian capital market. Of 255 companies, 44 financial entities were excluded because they operate in regulatory and competitive environments that are different from the other studied companies. The selected companies had at least one audit report over a 5-year period (2005 to 2009), which resulted in a final sample of 33 companies and a total of 165 observations. The study first analyzed the information content in the audit reports, and statistical analyses were then performed to compare the data. The results showed that the disclosure of accounting practices has a positive explanatory effect on the average share price variance.

Keywords: Disclosure, audit, audit reports, agency theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jacques, Flávia Verônica and Macagnan, Clea Beatriz, Disclosure of Information in Audit Reports (April 1, 2014). Global Journal of Management and Business Research: Accounting and Auditing, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2764235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
G A Akerlof , A A Alchian , H Demsetz
The market for "lemons": quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1970-08
Crossref
Francisco Araujo , José
Compreensão do parecer do auditor independente no Brasil Posted: 2003
Revista Brasileira De Contabilidade
, volume 139 , p. 71 - 82
Crossref
K J Arrow
Uncertainty and the welfare economics of medical care
The American Economic Review. v. LIII, n , volume 5 , p. 941 - 973 Posted: 1963
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
528,080
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies