Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
As Foreign Registrants Abandon the U.S. Capital Markets, What Happens to the Cross-Listing Audit Fee Premium?

41 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2016

Kathleen Bakarich

Hofstra University - Department of Accounting, Taxation and Legal Studies in Business

Joseph Weintrop

City University of New York - Baruch College - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 14, 2016

Abstract

Foreign firms cross-listing in the U.S. benefited from increased accounting quality and valuation stemming from the historically more stringent accounting and regulatory environment in the U.S. compared to their home markets. Auditors of these foreign firms, also facing this more rigorous reporting regime, charged a cross-listing audit fee premium. However, recent events have caused an increase in these firms leaving U.S. markets. Using a sample of cross-listed firms from 2004-2013 that voluntarily delisted and deregistered from U.S. markets and reporting requirements, we find that deregistration is associated with a decrease in audit fees for firms returning to non-IFRS environments and additional tests show the level of legal liability in the home market, relative to the U.S., is not a significant mitigating factor in this negative association between deregistration and audit fees. These findings indicate that, after controlling for country and legal effects, firms returning to IFRS jurisdictions do not experience a significant change in the complexity of their accounting environments, mitigating the impact of deregistration on audit fees, implying that selected markets outside of the U.S. have established comparable reporting regimes.

Keywords: Audit fees, IFRS, deregistration, cross-listing

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bakarich, Kathleen and Weintrop, Joseph, As Foreign Registrants Abandon the U.S. Capital Markets, What Happens to the Cross-Listing Audit Fee Premium? (April 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2765077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
S C Asthana , K K Raman , H Xu
U.S.-listed foreign companies' choice of a U.S.-based versus home country-based Big N principal auditor and the effect on audit fees and earnings quality
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 631 - 666 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Byard , Y Li , Y Yu
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on financial analysts' information environment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 96 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Beiting Cheng , Suraj Srinivasan , Gwen Yu
Securities Litigation Risk for Foreign Companies Listed in the U.S.
Pages: 52 Posted: 19 Oct 2012 Last revised: 18 Jun 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Kathleen M. Bakarich
Going Home: Examining Foreign Firm Deregistrations and Accounting Quality
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 147 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,703
RANK
393,016
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies