Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country Perspective - The Role of Assurance Professionals in Social and Environmental Accounting (Sea): A Call for a Need

Posted: 19 Apr 2016

Sadaf Khan

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Maisarah Saat

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Siti Panatik

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Mohd Noor Azli Ali Khan

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: April 12, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The goals of this review included the comprehensive review of Social and Environmental Accounting (SEA) in the domain, and to describe the SEA initiatives taken by corporations. Further, to raise a call to give attention in Pakistani context importantly the role of assurance professionals.

Design/methodology/approach: This literature review is conducted based on published articles; in total, 94 peer-reviewed academic articles during the period 1987-2014 from 30 peer reviewed journals found on the Web of Science, Emerald Publishers, and Springer were reviewed related to sustainability. This included research on corporate responsibility, corporate social and ethical responsibility, and social environmental accounting. Since this review adopts a country perspective (i.e. Pakistan), it explores literature relating to the CSER concept and CSER reporting in developing countries first, followed by a review of Social Environmental Accounting (SEA) in the accounting profession as a whole.

Findings: Pakistan, is in a relatively early stage of incorporating sustainability accounting. This review will raise attention of accounting professionals, accounting firms, accounting associations, and educational institutions both globally and in developing nations like Pakistan to conceptualize and initialize the focus on SEA from the perspective of assurance professionals.

Research limitation/Implications: This paper reviewed the research on Social and Environmental Accounting (SEA) from the perspective of accounting and auditing professionals. It was limited to assurance professionals in specific country context.

Practical implications: The article demonstrates the need for more empirical research on SEA in Pakistan, give awareness to assurance professionals to add value to the goods and services it exports. The review is expected to have several implications for accounting professionals, the firms that they work for, educational institutions and people involved in accounting, especially in Pakistan. Originality/value: This review stands as first effort to highlight the importance of SEA practices in the context of assurance professionals in Pakistan. Literature showed that it has been largely ignored by researchers in this area.

Keywords: Social and Environmental Accounting, Assurance Professionals, Pakistan

JEL Classification: Review

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Sadaf and Saat, Maisarah and Panatik, Siti and Ali Khan, Mohd Noor Azli, Country Perspective - The Role of Assurance Professionals in Social and Environmental Accounting (Sea): A Call for a Need (April 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies