Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Look-Back Analyses and Evidence Specificity Affect Auditors’ Planning Judgments?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming (Doi.org/10.2308/tar-2016-0660)

49 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2016 Last revised: 29 Feb 2020

Ann G. Backof

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Roger D. Martin

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Jane M. Thayer

Georgia Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 22, 2020

Abstract

During a look-back analysis, auditors review prior-period evidence to understand estimation inaccuracies and assess the reliability of management’s estimation process. We find that evidence specificity moderates the relation between the consistency of an estimation inaccuracy with management’s incentives and auditors’ reliability assessments. The direction of an estimation inaccuracy has no effect on auditors’ reliability assessments when the prior-period evidence is less specific. When prior-period evidence is more specific, auditors report the highest (lowest) reliability assessments of management’s estimation process when an estimation inaccuracy is inconsistent (consistent) with management’s incentives. Auditors’ low reliability assessments in the more specific, consistent condition, however, do not translate to high risk assessments. Instead, specificity has a main effect on auditors’ risk assessments. A follow-up experiment reveals, though, an inverse relation between auditors’ reliability and risk assessments when auditors are provided procedures to address various levels of assessed misstatement risk.

Keywords: Look-back analysis, Complex estimates, Prior-period evidence, Estimation inaccuracy direction

Suggested Citation:

Backof, Ann G. and Martin, Roger Dean and Thayer, Jane M., How Do Look-Back Analyses and Evidence Specificity Affect Auditors’ Planning Judgments? (January 22, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming (Doi.org/10.2308/tar-2016-0660), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2770208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2770208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions
Sage Posted: 1991
Auditing accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates, and related disclosures. AU-C Section 540 Posted: 2017
Crossref
U Anderson , K Kadous , L Koonce
The role of incentives to manage earnings and quantification in auditors' evaluations of management-provided information
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 27 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A G Backof , T D Carpenter , J Thayer
Auditing complex estimates: How do construal level and evidence formatting impact auditors' consideration of inconsistent evidence?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 1798 - 1815 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,826
RANK
125,413
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies