Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Risk of Misleading Financial Metrics in Annual Reports: A First Step towards Providing Assurance over Management's Discussion

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 5 May 2016

Dennis Caplan

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Date Written: May 4, 2016

Abstract

Recent public policy initiatives seek greater transparency in financial reporting through an honest, balanced and thorough management discussion of company performance in the annual report. Management’s discussion invariably includes key performance indicators, such as financial ratios, relevant to external stakeholders. We model the impact of accounting estimates, assumptions, choices and errors on the risk of misleading financial ratios. This framework is illustrated through good and bad examples of financial reporting practices and by simulation of financial data of public companies. We provide a structured approach to inform policymakers, auditors and other stakeholders of the incremental financial reporting risk that accompanies current regulatory efforts.

Keywords: Audit Risk, Financial Ratio, Financial Reporting Transparency, MD&A

JEL Classification: C11, C15, C44, D81, M41, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Caplan, Dennis and Dutta, Saurav K., Managing the Risk of Misleading Financial Metrics in Annual Reports: A First Step towards Providing Assurance over Management's Discussion (May 4, 2016). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2775328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
RANK
350,748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies