Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Client or the Employing Firm? Exploring Compliance and Convergence of Commitments to Professional Values in the Auditing Profession

Posted: 7 May 2016

Thomas Carrington

Stockholm University - Stockholm Business School; Åbo Akademi University

Tobias Johansson

Örebro University - School of Business

Gustav Johed

Independent

Peter Öhman

Mid Sweden University

Date Written: April 25, 2016

Abstract

In the accounting profession literature, considerable attention has been paid to the role of the organization of the accounting firm in creating, maintaining, and changing professional value commitments. However, many of the more recent changes in auditor working life concern specific client types. Analysing questionnaire data from 1646 certified auditors in Sweden, this study examines how client type influences auditors’ commitments to the core values of their profession. The results indicate that client type is as important as the employing organization in explaining auditor commitments to professional values. The type of client served, regardless of the auditor’s position in the organizational field (i.e. Big 4 vs. non-Big 4 firms), is a source of both conformity and variation in commitments to professional values in the auditing profession. The results also indicate that auditors in Big 4 firms comply and converge more closely than do auditors in other accounting firms in espousing commitment to independence. The study offers a new approach to distinguishing, both conceptually and in terms of measurement, between compliance and convergence, two often overlooked types of conformity to value commitments in professions.

Keywords: Auditing profession, Accounting firms, Institutional Compliance, Institutional Convergence, Professionalism

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Carrington, Thomas and Johansson, Tobias and Johed, Gustav and Öhman, Peter, The Client or the Employing Firm? Exploring Compliance and Convergence of Commitments to Professional Values in the Auditing Profession (April 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2776605
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies