Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Study on the Relationship between Auditor Expertise and Book-Tax Differences Before and after the Passage of the Mandatory Auditor Rotation

Posted: 12 May 2016

Laney Tsai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

The study examines the impact of mandatory auditor rotation on auditor expertise and book-tax differences using data from Taiwan, where the names of signing audit partners and audit firm are required to disclose audited financial statements. The rotation of auditor every five years became mandatory in Taiwan after 2004. The regime changes in Taiwan provide a unique setting to examine how the mandatory auditor rotation regime affects the auditor industry expertise’s attitude toward their clients’ tax avoidance.

We divided our sample into two groups to compare the relationship between auditor expertise and book-tax differences in a regime without rotation (pre-mandatory rotation period: 1998-2003) and one with rotation (mandatory rotation period: 2004-2008). We find that auditor industry expertise has professional tax knowledge, and thus plays a critical role in their clients’ tax avoidance strategies during pre-mandatory rotation period. However, we also find that the companies audited by auditor industry expertise are less likely to engage tax avoidance activities after implementing auditor mandatory rotation regime. Our results suggest that a limit on the length of the auditor-client relationship result in greater incentives for auditors to maintain independence or avoid excessive familiarity to each other, which effectively restrains firms’ opportunistic tax avoidance activities. Overall, our results provide empirical support for the arguments put forward by advocates of mandatory rotation from tax avoidance perspective.

Keywords: auditor industry expertise, book-tax differences, tax avoidance, mandatory auditor rotation

JEL Classification: H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tsai, Laney, The Study on the Relationship between Auditor Expertise and Book-Tax Differences Before and after the Passage of the Mandatory Auditor Rotation (May 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2778036
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies