Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditor Industry Specialization on Audit Pricing in Belgium

Review of Business and Economics Vol. 54, 2: 129-146 (2009)

18 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2016

Wouter Dutillieux

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB); European Union - European Commission

Marleen Willekens

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL)

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Recent studies have documented that auditor industry specialization is associated with higher audit fees for public firms in Australia, the U.S. and the U.K. This paper uses a unique dataset that consists of all audit engagements for the year 2004 to examine this issue in Belgium. We document that in addition to a general Big 4 brand name premium there is a premium for industry specialization. Above that, specialization leads to higher audit fees for both Big 4 specialists and non-Big 4 specialists. We contribute to the literature by documenting the existence of audit fee premiums for industry specialization in the nonlisted client segment of the audit market, while previous research focused on the listed client segment. In additional analyses we show that the largest audit clients do not pay fee premiums for specialization, which could be an indication of their greater bargaining power.

Keywords: auditor industry specialization, private client segment, audit fees, Belgium

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Dutillieux, Wouter and Willekens, Marleen, The Effect of Auditor Industry Specialization on Audit Pricing in Belgium (2009). Review of Business and Economics Vol. 54, 2: 129-146 (2009), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2790487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
I G Basioudis , J R Francis
Big 4 audit fee premiums for national and office-level industry leadership in the United Kingdom
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 26 , p. 143 - 166 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Y Campbell
Understanding risk and return
Journal of Political Economy , volume 104 , p. 298 - 345 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
347,495
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies