Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Response to Negative Media Coverage of Client Environmental, Social, and Governance Practices

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2016 Last revised: 19 Feb 2019

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

We use new data to examine auditor response to negative media coverage of client environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. This coverage can be indicative of an increased risk of material misstatement, which is an important assessment in client retention and pricing decisions. Specifically, media criticism can threaten a client’s financial condition, as well as reveal management effectiveness and integrity issues that are further compounded by negative attention and related financial problems. We therefore predict that auditors will notice and incorporate media-provided ESG information in their risk response, which has not been examined by prior research. Supporting this prediction, we find that ESG-related negative media coverage of an audit client is associated with a higher likelihood of auditor resignation and increased audit fees. This response is incremental to the issues that underlie this media coverage. Overall, these findings identify an additional economic incentive for companies to avoid poor ESG practices.

Keywords: Negative media; ESG; RepRisk; risk of material misstatement; audit fees; auditor resignation

JEL Classification: D81, L14, M20, M42

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Jenna and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Auditor Response to Negative Media Coverage of Client Environmental, Social, and Governance Practices (February 2019). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2791570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2791570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
B Asante-Appiah
Shock to firms' reputation: How do managers and auditors respond? Working paper Posted: 2018
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter help predict firm-level earnings and stock returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
Crossref
R F Baumeister , E Bratslavsky , C Finkenauer , K D Vohs
Bad is stronger than good
Review General Psychology , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 323 - 370 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,825
RANK
29,828
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies