Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Financial Statement Disaggregation on Audit Pricing

Koh K., Y. H. Tong, & Z. Zhu. The Effects of Financial Statement Disaggregation on Audit Pricing. International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming.

Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 19 Oct 2021

Kevin Koh

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Nanyang Business School

Yen H. Tong

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Nanyang Business School

Zinan Zhu

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

Date Written: October 3, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the extent of financial statement disaggregation affects the pricing of audit engagements in the US. We hypothesize and find that auditors assess higher engagement risk and charge higher audit fees for clients with more disaggregated financial statements. We also find that these higher audit fees are not the result of either increased auditor effort to mitigate detection risk or heightened inherent and control risks reflected in lower financial reporting quality. Instead, we document that greater financial statement disaggregation is positively associated with litigation risk. This result suggests that higher audit fees arise out of auditors’ assessments of heightened client and auditor business risks associated with litigation. While financial statement disaggregation may have beneficial effects on the quality of financial information, we document that financial statement disaggregation can impose costs on firms in terms of higher audit fees and a higher likelihood of litigation. Our study informs standard setters, firms, and auditors as they debate the costs, benefits, and extent of disaggregation to be presented in financial statements.

Keywords: financial statement disaggregation, audit fees, financial reporting quality, litigation risk, audit risk

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Koh, Kevin and Tong, Yen H. and Zhu, Zinan, The Effects of Financial Statement Disaggregation on Audit Pricing (October 3, 2021). Koh K., Y. H. Tong, & Z. Zhu. The Effects of Financial Statement Disaggregation on Audit Pricing. International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795401
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies