Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anticipation and Reaction to Going Concern Modified Audit Opinions by Sophisticated Investors

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2016 Last revised: 6 Aug 2018

Marshall A. Geiger

University of Richmond

Abdullah Kumas

University of Richmond - Robins School of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine whether institutional investors: 1) anticipate a distressed firm’s receipt of a first-time going concern modified audit opinion, and 2) react to a first-time going concern modified opinion by engaging in abnormal net selling of firm shares. Using a proprietary database of U.S. institutional investor trades, we find that institutional investors are net sellers of first-time going concern opinion firms beginning six months before the release of the report and remain net sellers through the subsequent three months. We also find that the severity of the reasons auditors modify their opinions is associated with increased trading activity, but only after the opinion is publicly available. Our results support the position that an auditor’s going concern modified opinion is influential in the marketplace by documenting that institutional investors anticipate this price-relevant information and react through increased selling. The finding of increased net selling of firms with more severe reasons for report modifications provides evidence of the incremental informational value of the wording in the modified opinion.

Keywords: Institutional Investors, Going Concern, Auditor Opinions

Suggested Citation:

Geiger, Marshall A. and Kumas, Abdullah, Anticipation and Reaction to Going Concern Modified Audit Opinions by Sophisticated Investors (January 11, 2016). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2796821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2796821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Assurance Auditing , Standards Board
Auditing Standard ASA 570: Going Concern Posted: 2015-12
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Dopuch , R Holthausen , R Leftwich
Abnormal stock returns associated with media disclosures of 'subject to' qualified audit opinions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 93 - 118 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Duréndez Gómez-Guillamón , A
The usefulness of the audit report in investment and financing decisions
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 18 , p. 549 - 559 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
230,052
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies