Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
If You Want My Advice: Status Motives and Audit Consultations About Accounting Estimates

52 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2016

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: June 21, 2016

Abstract

Effective consultation is critical for improving the audit of estimates. In an experiment where audit managers acted as consultants to other auditors, we examine conditions in which consultants either recommend estimates that differ substantially from advice-seekers’ assessments (contrariness) or recommend narrower reasonable ranges of estimates (precision). Psychology theory argues that both of these attributes can improve estimates. We examine whether these attributes depend on consultants' status motives, i.e., the desire to gain respect from or power over others. We find that active status motives lead consultants with higher specialized knowledge to provide recommendations that are less contrary, but more precise. However, consultants increase precision by tightening range bounds in a manner not counter to management’s preference and thus unlikely to prompt the audit team to challenge the estimate. Further, we find that higher consultant decision authority also constrains precision. Our findings suggest limits to consultation’s potential effectiveness in improving estimates. For instance, our findings suggest that firms and standard setters emphasize consultant scrutiny on the range bound that is most likely to constrain management opportunism.

Keywords: Status motives, Auditor consultation, Advice, Accounting estimates, Specialists, Evolutionary psychology

JEL Classification: M4, G18

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Leiby, Justin, If You Want My Advice: Status Motives and Audit Consultations About Accounting Estimates (June 21, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2798939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2798939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA). Statement of the Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1970
Crossref
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA). SAS 99: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
Crossref
AU Section 312: Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit Posted: 2006
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA). A Firm's System of Quality Control Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,087
RANK
268,746
24 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies