Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Client Size in the Estimation of the Big 4 Effect: A Comment on DeFond, Erkens, and Zhang (2016)

Management Science, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2799442

7 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2016 Last revised: 25 Jun 2016

Alastair Lawrence

London Business School

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

DeFond, Erkens, and Zhang (2016, hereafter DEZ) provide comprehensive analyses highlighting how random variations in propensity score matching (PSM) design choices affect inferences concerning the existence of the Big 4 auditor effect. The conclusion of DEZ is that Lawrence, Minutti-Meza, and Zhang (2011, hereafter LMZ) fail to find a Big 4 effect because of PSM’s sensitivity to design choices. We believe that DEZ emphasizes the need to think carefully when implementing PSM. We offer our views on DEZ findings and suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Big 4 Effect; Client Size

Suggested Citation:

Lawrence, Alastair and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Zhang, Ping, The Importance of Client Size in the Estimation of the Big 4 Effect: A Comment on DeFond, Erkens, and Zhang (2016) (April 18, 2016). Management Science, Forthcoming , Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2799442, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2799442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
M Defond , D Erkens , J Zhang
Does PSM really eliminate the Big N audit quality effect? Forthcoming Management Science Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Lawrence , M Minutti-Meza , P Zhang
Can Big 4 versus Non-Big 4 differences in audit-quality proxies be attributed to client characteristics?
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 286 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Morgan , C Winship
Counterfactuals and Causal Inference Methods and Principles for Social Research
Analytical Methods for Social Research Posted: 2015
R Rosenbaum , D Rubin
The central role in the propensity score in observational studies for causal effects
Biometrika , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,023
RANK
167,202
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies