Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Response to Analysts’ Forecast Properties: Some Evidence from Audit Fee Pricing

47 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2016

William Foo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Mark A. Bliss

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Ferdinand A. Gul

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Karen Lai

Monash University - Department of Accounting; Deakin University, Faculty of Business and Law, Deakin Law School, Students

Date Written: June 27, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates the association between analysts’ forecast properties (accuracy and dispersion) and audit fee pricing in U.S. publicly listed firms for years 2000 to 2012. Our findings provide evidence that analysts’ earnings forecast accuracy (dispersion) is negatively (positively) associated with audit fee pricing. These results suggest that analysts, as important financial intermediaries in the information environment, provide useful information to auditors in their assessment of client risk. We find that these associations are stronger for small firms and younger firms in line with these firms having a higher extent of information asymmetry.

Keywords: analysts’ forecasts, forecast accuracy and dispersion, audit fee pricing

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Foo, William and Bliss, Mark A. and Gul, Ferdinand A. and Lai, Karen, Auditors’ Response to Analysts’ Forecast Properties: Some Evidence from Audit Fee Pricing (June 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,894
RANK
366,348
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies