Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fees Post-SOX: An Auction Model

30 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2016

Ramy Elitzur

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Arieh Gavious

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev; Ono Academic College - Faculty of Business Administration

Yizhaq Minchuk

Shamoon College of Engineering

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 5, 2016

Abstract

Research shows that audit fees have increased after the SOX ban on providing non-audit services (NAS) to audit clients, but the reasons behind it have been unclear. Using an auction-modeling approach, this study aims to bridge this gap by providing a theoretical explanation for this empirical finding. Specifically, the paper analyzes the impact of the ban imposed in SOX/Title II on providing both audit services and NAS to audit clients. The study builds and compares an auction setting where auditors can compete for both auditing and NAS (the pre-SOX setting) with one where auditors can compete on only one of the two (the post-SOX setting). The model shows that NAS fees should have increased after SOX. The intuition behind this result is that the SOX-imposed ban on providing both NAS and audit services to the same clients has lessened the competition in the NAS auction. Next, the study demonstrates that audit fees will be higher in the post-SOX setting than the pre-SOX one. The intuition behind this finding is that in the post-SOX regime, to ensure that audit firms will participate in the audit auction even if they are inefficient, clients need to compensate the winner in the audit auction for giving up the NAS auction. The study also demonstrates that if clients’ budgets would stay the same, or increase, NAS prices would increase to reflect reduced competition. If, on the other hand, NAS budgets are reduced then, the study demonstrates that there is a threshold budget beyond which, the utility of audit firms would improve, and below it decrease. The intuition behind this result stems from the tradeoff between the increase in audit fees and the reduced NAS revenues, thus, leading to a threshold above which the auditors’ utility increases, and below which it decreases.

Keywords: Auctions, Auditing, Audit Fees, Nonaudit Services, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: M41, N40, G18

Suggested Citation:

Elitzur, Ramy and Gavious, Arieh and Minchuk, Yizhaq, Audit Fees Post-SOX: An Auction Model (May 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Causholli , M De Martinis , D Hay , W R Knechel
Audit markets, fees and production: Towards an integrated view of empirical audit research
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 29 , p. 167 - 215 Posted: 2010
J H Choi , J B Kim , X Liu , D Simunic
Audit pricing, legal liability regimes, and Big-4 premiums: Theory and cross-country evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 99 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J H Choi , J Kim , X Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
340,955
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies