Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Personnel Salaries and Audit Quality

58 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016 Last revised: 29 May 2017

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 25, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between audit personnel salaries and office-level audit quality. We measure audit personnel salaries at the Associate, Senior and Manager ranks for Big 4 audit offices from 2004 to 2013 using unique data obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor. We find that offices that pay lower salaries have a higher percentage of clients that experience restatements. In related analysis, we also find lower levels of audit quality when audit employees are paid less relative to other lines of service in accounting firms (tax, consulting, etc.). Finally, we examine the ability of audit offices to pass the costs of audit labor onto their clients. We document positive and significant associations between salary and fees, suggesting that audit offices pass the cost of labor onto their clients. Overall, our findings provide initial evidence on the role of audit salary and its impact on audit quality and audit fees.

Keywords: Audit Salaries, Audit Quality, Audit Office

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Pacelli, Joseph and Schroeder, Joseph H., Audit Personnel Salaries and Audit Quality (April 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,767
RANK
158,103
8 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies