Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inhibitors and Enablers of Gas Usage: Testing the Dual Factor Theory

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Jun 2016

Dave Henderson

University of Mary Washington

Marianne Bradford

North Carolina State University ; North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Amr Kotb

Zayed University

Date Written: June 29, 2016

Abstract

Prior research has extensively studied information technology (IT) usage by applying well-established theories. While this research stream has yielded rich insights into the enablers of IT usage, less attention has been paid to inhibitors of IT usage. The purpose of this study is to investigate the enablers and inhibitors of generalized audit software (GAS) usage. Our research model, based on the dual factor theory, postulates that inhibitors such as system problems and perceived threat, in addition to enablers such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, affect GAS usage. Based on a sample of 285 internal and external auditors, our results suggest that, after controlling for mandatory GAS usage, perceived threat negatively influences usage and perceived usefulness, whereas the system problems construct negatively influences perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the effect of system problems is fully mediated by perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, whereas the effect of perceived threat is partially mediated by perceived usefulness. Finally, our results indicate that the effect of perceived threat on GAS usage is stronger for internal auditors than external auditors, suggesting that the effect of inhibitors can vary by position. Overall, our results make important contributions to practice as well as to research on GAS usage and the dual factor theory.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Henderson, Dave and Bradford, Marianne and Bradford, Marianne and Kotb, Amr, Inhibitors and Enablers of Gas Usage: Testing the Dual Factor Theory (June 29, 2016). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802138
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,063
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies