Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Excess Audit Fees and Credit Ratings

57 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016 Last revised: 29 Nov 2016

Valentina Bruno

American University - Department of Finance and Real Estate; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Kimberly Cornaggia

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Date Written: November 28, 2016

Abstract

Credit rating agencies and auditors are complementary certification agents subject to a conflict of interest inherent in their compensation structure. We examine client firm credit ratings to test alternative hypotheses of abnormal audit fees. We predict and find both cross-sectional and time series variation in our results. Excess audit fees are associated with less favorable credit ratings, but only among speculative grade issuers. Among firms certified investment grade, we find evidence of economic bonding: excess fees are associated with more favorable ratings. As predicted by economic theory, economic bonding effects obtain during economic expansions when the probability of consequence is low. During economic contractions – when audit failure and ratings inflation are more likely consequential – certification agents protect their reputation value. Overall, our results suggest that excess compensation paid to one certifying agent might be useful to learn about the actions of the other.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Credit Ratings, Economic Bonding, Information Intermediary

JEL Classification: G24, G28, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bruno, Valentina Giulia and Cornaggia, Kimberly and Krishnan, Gopal, The Relation between Excess Audit Fees and Credit Ratings (November 28, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , Iv , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S C Asthana , J P Boone
Abnormal audit fee and audit quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Ayers , S Laplante , S Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of book-tax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,180
RANK
242,798
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies