Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Auditors’ Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Estimate Assumptions

38 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2016 Last revised: 1 May 2019

Ashley A. Austin

University of Richmond

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: April 25, 2019

Abstract

Auditors have difficulty evaluating the assumptions underlying management’s estimates. One source of these problems is that auditors appear to dismiss evidence contradicting management’s assumptions because their initial preference to support management’s accounting biases their preliminary conclusions and, thus, their interpretation of evidence. We experimentally examine whether auditors with a balanced focus (i.e., a focus on documenting evidence that supports and contradicts their preliminary conclusion) are less likely to dismiss evidence that contradicts management’s assumptions than auditors with a supporting focus (i.e., a focus on documenting evidence that supports their preliminary conclusion). We expect and find that, compared to auditors with a supporting focus, auditors with a balanced focus create documentation that is less dismissive of evidence contradicting management’s estimate. Importantly, a balanced focus changes auditors’ cognition and affects how auditors interpret contradicting evidence rather than merely increasing their documentation of this evidence. The effects of reduced dismissiveness persist to improve auditors’ evaluations of a biased estimate and subsequent actions, improving audit quality in an important and difficult area.

Keywords: Documentation, complex estimates, assumptions, motivated reasoning

JEL Classification: M42, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Austin, Ashley A. and Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Ricci, Michael, Improving Auditors’ Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Estimate Assumptions (April 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2808178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
9 Citations
Jeffrey R. Cohen , Lisa Milici Gaynor , Norma R. Montague , Julie Wayne
The Effect of Framing on Information Search and Information Evaluation in Auditors’ Fair Value Judgments
47 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2015 · Last revised: 12 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amy Tegeler
The Influence of Inspection Findings Emphasis on Auditor Mindsets and Judgments in Audits of Complex Estimates
Amy C. Tegeler; The Influence of Inspection Findings Emphasis on Auditor Mindsets and Judgments in Audits of Complex Estimates. <em><em>Behavioral Research in Accounting</em></em> 2025; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/BRIA-2022-046" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.2308/BRIA-2022-046</a> · 35 Pages · Posted: 5 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 21 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 276
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anna Gold , Kathryn Kadous , Justin Leiby
Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates
Gold, A., K. Kadous, and J. Leiby. 2024. Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates. The Accounting Review, forthcoming. · 56 Pages · Posted: 12 May 2020 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kathryn Holmstrom
Auditor Reliance on Opaque Audit Methods: The Effects of Auditor Ownership and Task Experience
50 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 444
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,348
RANK
261,451
9 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies