Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values

70 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2016

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 09, 2016

Abstract

Auditors frequently use valuation specialists to help them evaluate fair values, but problems related to specialists’ involvement suggest the potential benefits of specialists’ involvement are under-realized. I interviewed 28 auditors and 14 valuation specialists to investigate how auditors use valuation specialists in audits of fair values. I analyze the interviews using theories of trust in expert systems (Giddens 1990, 1991) and systems of professions (Abbott 1988). This analysis reveals that auditors’ reliance on specialists for valuation knowledge threatens auditors’ perceived jurisdictional claim to the audit. This triggers defensive behaviors by auditors that collectively form a tendency to make specialists’ work conform to the audit team’s perspective. By identifying auditors’ tendency to make specialists’ work conform to their perspective and theorizing jurisdictional defense as a root cause of this tendency, this study informs researchers, practitioners, and standard setters interested in understanding and addressing problems in the fair value setting.

Keywords: Accounting Estimates, Auditing, Fair value, Professions, Specialist

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine, Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values (July 09, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2808581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
254,521
21 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies