Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Secrecy Culture and Audit Opinion: Some International Evidence

Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2017

Theodore TY Chen

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Feida Zhang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS); University of Queensland - Accounting and Accountability

Gaoguang (Stephen) Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law; Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU); Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: July 10, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether and how auditors respond to audit risks arising from secrecy culture when making audit opinions decisions. Using a sample of international Big N auditors from 33 countries, we find strong and robust evidence that auditors are more likely to issue modified audit opinions to clients domiciled in countries with a strong secrecy culture. In addition, we find that the association between secrecy culture and auditors’ propensity to issue modified audit opinions is less pronounced in countries with strong investor protection than that in countries with weak investor protection.

Keywords: Secrecy Culture, Audit Opinions, Investor Protection

JEL Classification: M42; K22; Z1

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Theodore TY and Zhang, Feida and Zhou, Gaoguang (Stephen), Secrecy Culture and Audit Opinion: Some International Evidence (July 10, 2016). Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2809991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
References: international investigation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 13 - 46 Posted: 2007
M Defond , M Hung , R Trezevant
Investor protection and the information content of annual earnings announcements: International evidence
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 43 , p. 37 - 67 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Defond , K Raghunandan , K R Subramanyam
Do non-audit service fees impair auditor independence? Evidence from going concern audit opinions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 1247 - 1274 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 58 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
568,179
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies