Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation, Auditor Litigation and Settlements

33 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2016 Last revised: 1 Aug 2016

Lakshmana Krishna Moorthy

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Date Written: November 30, 2015

Abstract

This paper aims to understand the determinants of lawsuits against auditors in securities class action litigation and the settlement pattern by auditors when the suit is not dismissed. The issues we consider are: (i) when are auditors named as defendants (ii) when do auditors choose to settle and (iii) what proportion of the settlement do auditors pay in relation to the settlement by all the other parties; and (iv) differences in settlement strategies among the big-n firms. We also want to understand how these suit and settlement patterns have changed following the enactment of major regulation such as the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act (PSLRA), Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX). Following prior literature, we first establish that auditors are more likely both to be named and to settle in cases involving restatement of earnings, accusations of violation of GAAP or accounting improprieties. We then show that the likelihood of suit and settlement increase in a measure that we construct measuring the complexity of litigation. We then examine differences in settlement patterns across periods preceding and after the passage of PSLRA and SOX. We find that auditors are named less often in the post PSLRA period (relative to the pre-PSLRA period), settle with the same frequency in both periods but pay less proportional damages. The same set of comparisons show that auditors are just as likely to be sued post-SOX as pre-SOX, but settle with lower frequency and pay the same proportion of damages. Overall this study documents the beneficial role of both PSLRA and SOX on reducing the litigation burden on auditors. With regard to settlement strategies, we document the varying strategies employed by the Big-n firms that settle at different rates, vary in their aggressiveness and time to settle signaling the willingness to fight or cooperate in the settlement.

Suggested Citation:

Krishna Moorthy, Lakshmana and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai, Regulation, Auditor Litigation and Settlements (November 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2811460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Coopers , Lybrand , &amp; Deloitte , Touche , &amp; Ernst , Young , Price Kpmg Peat Marwick , Waterhouse
The Liability Crisis in the United States: Impact on the Accounting Profession; A Statement of Position Posted: 1992
Ashiq Ali , Sanjay Kallapur
Securities Price Consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Related Events
The Accounting Review , p. 431 - 60 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Bar-Yosef , Bharat Sasson , Sarath
Auditor size, market segmentation and litigation patterns: A theoretical analysis
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , p. 59 - 92 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Bloomberg News
Deloitte and banks to pay $455 million to Adelphia investors Posted: 2006-12-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
RANK
339,352
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies