Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interrelation between Audit Quality and Managerial Reporting Choices and Its Effects on Financial Reporting Quality

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-60

43 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2016 Last revised: 19 Dec 2018

Evelyn Patterson

Indiana University-Kelley School of Business

Reed Smith

Kelley School of Business

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2018

Abstract

Two distinct lines of research have been dedicated to empirically testing how financial reporting quality (measured as the earnings response coefficient or ERC) is associated with management's choice of reporting bias and with audit quality. However, researchers have yet to consider how ERCs are affected by either the auditor's reaction to changes in the manager’s reporting bias or the manager’s reaction to changes in audit quality. Our study provides theoretical guidance on these interrelations, and how changes in the manager’s or the auditor’s incentives affect both reporting bias and audit quality. Specifically, when the manager’s cost (benefit) of reporting bias increases (decreases), we find that expected bias decreases, inducing the auditor to react by reducing audit quality. Because we also find that the association between expected audit quality and ERCs is always positive, changes in managerial incentives for biased reporting lead to a positive association between ERCs and expected reporting bias. When the cost of auditing decreases or the cost of auditor liability increases, we find that expected audit quality increases, inducing the manager to react by decreasing reporting bias. In this case, changes in the costs of audit quality lead to a negative association between ERCs and expected reporting bias. Finally, we demonstrate the impact of our theoretical findings by focusing on the empirical observations documented in the extant literature on managerial ownership and accounting expertise on the audit committee. In light of our framework, we provide new interpretations of these empirical observations and new predictions for future research.

Keywords: Strategic Auditing, Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: C72, M21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Patterson, Evelyn and Smith, J. Reed and Tiras, Samuel L., The Interrelation between Audit Quality and Managerial Reporting Choices and Its Effects on Financial Reporting Quality (November 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2812853 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2812853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
11 Citations
Henock Louis , Thomas C. Pearson , Dahlia M. Robinson , Michael N. Robinson , Amy X. Sun
The Effects of the Extant Clauses Limiting Auditor Liability on Audit Fees and Overall Reporting Quality
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 381 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Evelyn Patterson , J. Reed Smith , Samuel L. Tiras
How Changes in Expectations of Earnings Affect the Associations of Earnings Overstatements and Audit Effort with Audit Risk and Market Price
79 Pages · Posted: 11 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 155
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sandra Kronenberger , Sebastian Kronenberger , Minlei Ye
Audit Committee Independence and Auditor-Manager Disputes
57 Pages · Posted: 26 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 16 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 379
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Harold Lopez , Evelyn Patterson , J. Reed Smith , Samuel L. Tiras
The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Rotation on Reported Accruals and Audit Fees
42 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 14 May 2025 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
575
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,989
RANK
109,017
11 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies