Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tell Me More: A Content Analysis of Expanded Auditor Reporting in the United Kingdom

Accounting, Organizations and Society https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2023.101456

Posted: 12 Aug 2016 Last revised: 5 Feb 2024

Kecia Smith

North Carolina A&T State University

Date Written: April 21, 2023

Abstract

Examining the implementation of ISA 700 (UK and Ireland) provides unique insights into auditors’ word choice and tone when creating expanded audit reports. Focusing on the first two years of ISA 700 implementation, I evaluate readability and tone to determine if ISA 700 audit reports are associated with greater reading ease and increased risk discussion. I find that ISA 700 audit reports are easier to read and better reflect the risk-related nature of the audit. Results show that improvements are concentrated in the initial year of implementation. Additionally, audit reports include more general versus discipline-specific terms noted in management-developed communications. Using an information readability metric, I find that post-ISA 700 audit reports are readable even when more risks are disclosed. Overall, these results show that expanded audit reports can be crafted in a manner that is easier to understand while communicating the underlying risks in a financial statement audit.

Keywords: communication value, audit report, readability, tone, content analysis, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Kecia, Tell Me More: A Content Analysis of Expanded Auditor Reporting in the United Kingdom (April 21, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2023.101456, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2821399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2821399
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies