Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Auditors Think about Audit Quality - A New Perspective on an Old Issue

31 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2016

George Baah

Case Western Reserve University, Weatherhead School of Management, Department of Organizational Behavior, Students

Timothy J. Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 16, 2016

Abstract

Accounting literature deploys audit quality as a central concept of auditing, yet our appreciation of the construct has not yielded the desired audit. While this construct has been captured by the need to service investors’ decision-making and its role in the efficiency of the capital markets, inputs from much of the performers of audit to the audit quality debate has been minimal. Using survey responses from auditors of their perceptions about audit quality in the auditing industry, this paper rolls back the evolution of audit quality literature to report what those actually doing audits perceive. A conceptual model that specifies auditor characteristics with ex ante and process constraints as a moderator identifies the extent to which auditor’s independence, integrity and objectivity impact the quality of financial statement auditing. The research also finds that process constraints negatively impact the positive effect of auditor’s characteristics on audit quality. Findings from our research show that audit practitioners’ perceptions about factors that determine audit quality must be strongly considered in order to achieve desired audit.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Independence, Integrity, Objectivity, Constraints

Suggested Citation:

Baah, George and Fogarty, Timothy J., What Auditors Think about Audit Quality - A New Perspective on an Old Issue (March 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2822565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M S Beasley , B C Branson , B V Hancock
Rising expectations: Audit committee oversight of enterprise risk management
Journal of Accountancy , volume 205 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management*. Contemporary accounting research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
B K Behn , J H Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J V Carcello , R H Hermanson , N T Mcgrath
Audit quality attributes: The perceptions of audit partners, preparers, and financial statement users
Auditing , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,150
RANK
159,889
3 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies