Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Review Mode and Reviewer Preference on Auditors’ Performance

Journal of Accounting Review, Vol. 63, 47-76, 2016

30 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2016

Rong-Ruey Duh

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Ching-Chieh Lin

National Pingtung University

Jung-Ling Liao

PricewaterhouseCoopers Taiwan

Date Written: August 12, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the joint effect on auditor performance of two accountability features in the audit review process: review mode and reviewer preference. It investigates whether the auditors’ strategic behavior can be mitigated under the e-mail review mode. Seventy-eight auditors participated in an experiment. Results suggest that, under the face-to-face review mode, auditors whose supervisors are known to be skeptical about client-provided explanations make lower likelihood assessment that the explanations can substantially account for the fluctuation of accounts receivable balance than auditors whose supervisors are known to trust the client-provided explanations. Such attitudinal shift is not reduced under the e-mail review mode. In addition, under the face-to-face review mode, auditors in the skeptical condition search for more opposing (less supporting) audit evidence than those in the credence condition. However, such differences diminish under the e-mail review mode. Our finding suggests that auditors’ conformity to the reviewer preference can be moderated by review mode for process accountability but not outcome accountability.

Keywords: Accountability, Review mode, Reviewer preference, Auditor performance

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Duh, Rong-Ruey and Lin, Ching-Chieh and Liao, Jung-Ling, The Effect of Review Mode and Reviewer Preference on Auditors’ Performance (August 12, 2016). Journal of Accounting Review, Vol. 63, 47-76, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
454,090
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies