Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Statutory Audit Framework in Europe: Implications for the Provision of Non-Audit Services

57 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2016

Claus Holm

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The individual EU Member States have options on how they implement the new statutory audit framework in Europe. They may introduce stricter rules or apply certain exemptions where deemed appropriate. Denmark exemplifies Member States with a traditionally high level of non-audit services provided by its auditors. The aim of this study is to contrast the minimum implementation rationale observed in the Danish implementation process with an ex ante examination of fee dependency.

Design/methodology/approach: The audit reform introduces a cap on non-audit fees which implies a regulator-determined condition of non-independence. The cap is applied as a treatment effect on the ex ante relationship between audit fees and non-audit fees. In a sample with 3,238 observations, Denmark is compared with Finland, Germany, Sweden and the UK in order to determine whether the new measure will have different implications.

Findings: The findings support the regulators’ concern that auditors of public interest entities (PIEs) with high levels of non-audit services are more likely to have self-interest threats. The findings also suggest that the implications of the harmonization process will be different across countries. Denmark is singled out as having particular dependency issues which are not sufficiently recognized in the minimum implementation rationale applied by the national legislators.

Originality/value: This study establishes that the measures in the new audit reform likely will have some effect in most Member States, but for certain countries like Denmark, there will be greater effects on the future provision of non-audit services.

Keywords: Regulation, Audit reform, Independence, Audit fees, Non-audit services

Suggested Citation:

Holm, Claus, The New Statutory Audit Framework in Europe: Implications for the Provision of Non-Audit Services (August 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2823477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Alexander , D Hay
The effects of recurring and non-recurring non-audit services on auditor independence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 28 , p. 407 - 425 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance & Accounting , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
I G Basioudis , E Papakonstantinou , M A Geiger
Audit Fees, Non-Audit Fees and Auditor Going-Concern Reporting Decisions in the United Kingdom
Abacus , volume 44 , p. 284 - 309 Posted: 2008
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Auditor independence and non-audit services: A literature review Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,836
RANK
244,564
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies