Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Hiring a Local Industry Specialist Auditor Matter to Nonprofit Organizations?

Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2016 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Stefanie L. Tate

University of Massachusetts at Lowell

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

Prior literature on auditor choice in the nonprofit market has largely focused on auditor size as a measure of audit quality. We extend this literature by examining a more refined definition of nonprofit audit quality which incorporates the twelve mission industries defined by the National Taxonomy of Exempt Entities (NTEE). Different from prior studies, we investigate audit firm industry specialization based on these twelve industry categories rather than classifying the nonprofit sector as a whole as an industry, highlighting that different types of nonprofit organizations require specialized auditor knowledge. We also measure industry specialization at a local metropolitan service area (MSA) level, taking into account the varying state regulatory environments and the more localized audit market for nonprofit organizations. We use this improved measure to study both the determinants and consequences of nonprofit auditor choice. We find that industry specialist auditor choice among nonprofit organizations is associated with higher governance quality (higher governance index, larger boards, and more independent boards), poorer financial health, and greater complexity. Moreover, nonprofits audited by industry specialist auditors issue more timely financial reports to stakeholders and see a future increase in direct donations than nonprofits audited by non-specialist auditors and Big 4 auditors.

Keywords: Nonprofit Audit Quality, Auditor Specialization

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Erica and Tate, Stefanie L. and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Does Hiring a Local Industry Specialist Auditor Matter to Nonprofit Organizations? (May 20, 2018). Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2825366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2825366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
T Eisenberg , S Sundgren , M T Wells
Larger board size and decreasing firm value in small firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 54 Posted: 1998
R J Elder , S Lowensohn , J L Reck
Audit Firm Rotation, Auditor Specialization, and Audit Quality in the Municipal Audit Context
Journal of Government & Nonprofit Accounting , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Ettredge , J Heintz , C Li , S Scholz
Auditor realignments accompanying implementation of SOX 404 ICFR reporting requirements. Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G A Feltham , J S Hughes , D A Simunic
Empirical assessment of the impact of auditor quality on the valuation of new issues
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 375 - 399 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
RANK
364,553
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies