Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abnormal Audit Fees and Accounting Quality

67 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2016

Jeffrey Coulton

UNSW Business School

Gilad Livne

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 18, 2016

Abstract

We provide evidence that distinguishes between competing production cost-based explanations of how to interpret unusually high (or low) audit fees and their expected relation with accounting quality. Abnormally high or low fees are typically proxied by the residuals obtained from fee models. Whereas prior research assumes these residuals are independent from one year to the next, we argue that the inherent “stickiness” in audit fee residuals also means that measures of unexpected fees will be serially correlated. Our results strongly support this view, and suggest that audit fee residuals reflect a limitation of the standard audit fee model in capturing attributes of the auditing environment that are not well captured at the client-firm level. However, we also argue that the extent to which residual fees differ from the recent past can clarify their relation to accounting quality. We show that the “jump” in fee residuals relative to their long-run “sticky” average is strongly associated with lower accounting quality. Hence, a “jump” in fee residuals is a suitable proxy for lower accounting quality, as it likely reflects reactive auditor effort and/or an additional risk premium. We then show that long-run fee residuals are also negatively associated with subsequent accounting quality, a result which further contradicts the argument that higher abnormal audit fees capture increased proactive effort and therefore reflect “investments in auditing”. Overall, our results suggest that risk, rather than proactive effort, is a better explanation for higher than expected audit production costs.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Accounting Quality, Audit Quality, Multi-Period Fee Analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Coulton, Jeffrey J. and Livne, Gilad and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate and Taylor, Stephen L., Abnormal Audit Fees and Accounting Quality (August 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2826272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,068
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,858
RANK
47,690
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies