Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of External Auditor's Report on the Credit Decision for Yemeni Banks

12 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2016

Akari Salim

University of Manouba

Date Written: August 29, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of external auditor’s report on credit decision in Yemen banks to identify if the type of audit report affects credit decision. To empirically study our problem, we collected forty (40) cases actual investment credit from eight banks Yemenis (28 cases and 12 cases of agreement of rejection). The results of the study showed that auditor's report is considered as one of the important sources for credit officers in making their credit decision. The study also showed that qualified auditor's report, compared to clean reports, influences the credit officer's decision. Finally the study concludes that there are significant statistical differences between the various types of qualified auditor's reports in affecting the credit decision. Based on the conclusions of the study, the researchers recommend that the banks should increase their reliance on the various types of audit reports in making credit decisions, and pay more attention to disclosure and accounting policies qualifications. The researchers also recommend that the Yemen Association of the Certified Public Accountants should encourage the auditors to be very careful when expressing their opinions about the financial statements in order to avoid misleading decision makers.

Keywords: External Auditor, Auditor’s Report, Credit Decision, Yemeni Banks

JEL Classification: B26

Suggested Citation:

Salim, Akari, The Effect of External Auditor's Report on the Credit Decision for Yemeni Banks (August 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2831795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,396
RANK
301,137
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies