Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners: Insights from Practice

33 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2016 Last revised: 5 Sep 2019

Veena L Brown

University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

Jodi L. Gissel

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater

Adam Vitalis

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 15, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the effects of new mandates that require public identification of audit engagement partners in the U.S. and Canada on audit quality and on partners’ perceptions of accountability. Using semi-structured interviews, we solicit practicing Canadian audit partners’ perceptions of the regulation. We find partners believe they are reaching or already at a ceiling level of accountability. The partners do not believe the transparency of publicly identifying them as audit engagement partners will increase audit quality. The partners express less concern over managing external reputations than managing internal reputations, which they believe have a more direct impact on their careers. We conclude that while the regulation should increase audit quality from a theoretical perspective, increasing audit engagement partners’ transparency is unlikely to impact quality on a practical level. Our study suggests that regulators and researchers must consider the aggregate impact of multidimensional accountability pressures and highlights the need for future research to better understand the boundary conditions between accountability and audit quality.

Keywords: audit engagement partner disclosure, audit quality, reputation building, reporting transparency, risk acceptance behavior

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Veena L and Gissel, Jodi Lynn and Vitalis, Adam, Mandatory Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners: Insights from Practice (August 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2831730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Comment on
American Accounting Association Auditing Section Auditing Standards Committee, or AAA ASC , volume 29 Posted: 2009-09
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Armitage , A Webb , J Glynn
The use of management accounting techniques by small and medium-sized enterprises: A field study of Canadian and Australian practice
Accounting Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 69 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Lawrence Abbott , Colleen M. Boland , William L. Buslepp , Sean McCarthy
U.S. Audit Partner Identification and Auditor Reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Forthcoming · Posted: 8 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 5 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mai Dao , Hongkang Xu , Long Liu
Impact of the Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners on Audit Quality: Evidence from the USA
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 1, pp. 112-124, 2019 · 13 Pages · Posted: 20 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 8
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,448
RANK
139,038
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies