Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Arrangements, Audit Storms and Auditor Independence in China

Abacus, 2016

43 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2016

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Suchang Yang

Lanzhou University

Xinmin Zhang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Michael Firth

Lingnan University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

China has adopted an Executive-dominated government audit system (GAS), which is frequently criticized for lacking independence. Through a questionnaire survey and interviews, we investigate whether and how the reporting/control requirements of the GAS (hereafter, the institutional arrangements) result in a lack of government audit independence in China and how this affects budget supervision by the People’s Congress. We contribute field evidence to support the prediction that an Executive-dominated GAS lacks independence and transparency, which in turn is detrimental to the wider accountability regime. However, the specific level of independence varies according to the types and levels of government audit. Our findings enrich the government audit literature, enhance our understanding of the relationship between institutional arrangements and audit independence in a transition economy, and serve as a call for institutional reform relating to the Chinese GAS.

Keywords: Auditing, Audit Independence, Audit Storms, China, Government Audit, People’s Congress

Suggested Citation:

Xiao, Jason Zezhong and Yang, Suchang and Zhang, Xinmin and Firth, Michael, Institutional Arrangements, Audit Storms and Auditor Independence in China (August 1, 2016). Abacus, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
411,653
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Comparative Capitalism eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies