Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Impact of Client Integrity on the Audit Decision-Making Process

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 1, June 2014

Posted: 2 Sep 2016

Samantha Messier

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Jeffrey Bernard

Independent

Date Written: June 31, 2014

Abstract

Our research reviewed the methodologies and findings of the auditing and forensic accounting disciplines concentrating on the associations between auditors’ perceptions of client trustworthiness and the audit-decision process. In our research, we review 20 studies that examined client trustworthiness between 1987 and 2009. Our research documents associations between the trustworthiness of an auditor’s client (i.e., operationalized in many studies as client integrity) and various aspects of the audit environment such as the client base of an auditor; and the audit planning process and auditor judgment. The foundation of corporate governance and the value of the audit are weakened when client integrity is questionable and may not result in implementing more rigorous audit procedures suggested by Mautz and Sharaf (1961). While this study is a review of the existing literature, we organize the existing 20 articles into a comprehensive matrix.

Suggested Citation:

Messier, Samantha and Bernardi, Richard A. and Bernard, Jeffrey, A Review of the Impact of Client Integrity on the Audit Decision-Making Process (June 31, 2014). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 1, June 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2832982
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
682
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies