Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could the Level of Personal Indebtedness Influence an Auditor's Professional Decision-Making Process?

Sweeney, Christopher J., Bernardi, Richard A. and Arnold, Donald F.: (2014). Could the Level of Personal Indebtedness Influence an Auditor’s Professional Decision-Making Process? Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, 18 (Chap 4): 89-108.

Posted: 6 Sep 2016

Christopher Sweeney

Independent

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Donald F. Arnold

Union Graduate College - School of Management

Date Written: August 31, 2014

Abstract

This research examines the effect of auditors’ personal debt on their audit decision making. We developed two different background scenarios that vary the level of the auditor’s personal debt. While one scenario indicated that the partner lived a modest lifestyle and was relatively free of debt, the other indicated that the partner lived an expensive lifestyle and had considerable personal debt. Our data indicate that auditors receiving the higher personal indebtedness scenario were more likely to believe that the auditor in the case study would sign-off on the audit without doing any additional work. We also found that the propensity to believe that the auditor in the case study would sign-off on the audit without doing any additional work decreased as the participants’ rank within the firm increased. Our research documents that a partner’s level of indebtedness could influence the participant’s audit decisions.

Suggested Citation:

Sweeney, Christopher and Bernardi, Richard A. and Arnold, Donald F., Could the Level of Personal Indebtedness Influence an Auditor's Professional Decision-Making Process? (August 31, 2014). Sweeney, Christopher J., Bernardi, Richard A. and Arnold, Donald F.: (2014). Could the Level of Personal Indebtedness Influence an Auditor’s Professional Decision-Making Process? Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, 18 (Chap 4): 89-108. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2832985
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies