Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Use of International Standards for Assurance Engagements by Non-accounting Practitioners

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice &Theory, forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2016 Last revised: 3 Jul 2023

Qingling Ge

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: June 23, 2023

Abstract

When last revising the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) determined that it is in the “public interest” for all competent practitioners (including non-accounting practitioners) to use the ISAEs. The IAASB imposed conditions on such use, that an engagement’s underpinning ethics and quality control frameworks should be disclosed in the assurance report. While this explicit determination may encourage wider use of ISAEs by non-accounting practitioners, the conditions imposed may also act as a deterrent. Using a pre-post design on 2,282 international assurance engagements undertaken by non-accounting practitioners, we identify increased use of ISAEs, and greater disclosure of underpinning ethics and quality control frameworks, although some breaches remain. We further find that switches to ISAEs by non-accounting practitioners have resulted in enhanced transparency of assurance procedures and independence in the assurance report, and an increased share of the assurance services market.

Keywords: Accounting Practitioners, Assurance Engagements, Ethics, Greenhouse Gas, Other Assurance Providers, Quality Control

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Qingling and Simnett, Roger and Zhou, Shan, Evaluating the Use of International Standards for Assurance Engagements by Non-accounting Practitioners (June 23, 2023). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice &Theory, forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2837397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2837397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Accountability
AccountAbility. 2021. AA1000 Assurance Standards v3 Posted: 2008-03
S Al-Tuwaijri , T Christensen , K Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5/6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
V Bröcheler , S Maijoor , A Van Witteloostuijn
Auditor human capital and audit firm survival: The Dutch audit industry in 1930-1992
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 627 - 646 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
426
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,363
RANK
156,866
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies