Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Performance of Auditors’ Going-Concern Opinions and Statistical Failure Prediction Models in Jordan

Kluwer – Accountancy & Bedrijfskunde, Acc. Bedr. 2011/8

13 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2016 Last revised: 8 Jun 2017

Bahaaeddin Alareeni

Ahila University; Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB)

Joel Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Accountancy, Auditing and Business Financing (ACCO)

Date Written: August 14, 2011

Abstract

There are several tools that can help investors and other stakeholders in the assessment of the going-concern status of the company. Among other statistical failure prediction models and audit reports of auditors can be of benefit. In this article, we evaluate how valid and accurate statistical failure prediction models are in a geographic area that is different from the context in which they were originally developed or tested (the United States and European countries), and we compare their predictive power with going-concern opinions (GCOs) of auditors. We examine the relative performance of the statistical failure prediction models and GCOs in Jordan, as an example of a developing country in the Arab region. We use the Altman Z-score model (1968) and two specially developed logit (Alareeni, 2011), as examples of statistical failure prediction models. We believe that the failure prediction statistical models generally give much better results than the GCOs. Our findings may help investors and other stakeholders to prevent or reduce losses when they are likely to be facing bankruptcy.

Suggested Citation:

Alareeni, Bahaaeddin and Branson, Joel, The Relative Performance of Auditors’ Going-Concern Opinions and Statistical Failure Prediction Models in Jordan (August 14, 2011). Kluwer – Accountancy & Bedrijfskunde, Acc. Bedr. 2011/8 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
K Abdullah
Auditing science, theoretical and practical aspect Posted: 2004
B Alareeni
An analysis of the relative performance of auditors' going-concern opinions and statistical failure prediction models for listed companies in Jordan Posted: 2011
E Altman
Financial ratio, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E Altman , E Altman , T Mcgough
Corporate financial distress: A complete guide to predicting, avoiding and dealing with bankruptcy
The Journal of Accountancy , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
511,635
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies