Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Key Audit Matters on the Auditor's Report's Communicative Value: Experimental Evidence from Investment Professionals and Non-Professional Investors

Accounting in Europe, forthcoming (published online)

Posted: 14 Sep 2016 Last revised: 19 May 2020

Annette Köhler

University of Duisburg-Essen

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Date Written: February 25, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the effect of key audit matters (KAM) in the auditor’s report as required by the new ISA 701. We consider investment professionals and non-professional investors in our experiments, in which we test the communicative value of a KAM section relating to goodwill impairment. Our main results show that in the condition in which the KAM section suggests that already small changes in the key assumptions could eventually lead to a goodwill impairment (KAM negative condition), investment professionals assess the economic situation of the company to be significantly better as compared to the condition in which the KAM section suggests that only large changes in the key assumptions could eventually lead to a goodwill impairment (KAM positive condition). In the additional analysis with non-professional investors, we find that a KAM section has no communicative value, implying that non-professional investors have difficulties with processing the information conveyed with KAM.

Keywords: communicative value, improved auditor’s report, key audit matters, trust model, investment professionals

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Köhler, Annette and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Theis, Jochen, The Effects of Key Audit Matters on the Auditor's Report's Communicative Value: Experimental Evidence from Investment Professionals and Non-Professional Investors (February 25, 2020). Accounting in Europe, forthcoming (published online), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838162
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,704
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies