Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Low-Balling of Audit Fees and Subsequent Recovery

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2016/14

Posted: 15 Sep 2016

Myojung Cho

Pace University

Soo Young Kwon

Korea University

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Date Written: September 12, 2016

Abstract

Auditors’ low-balling in initial engagements is a longstanding concern for regulators and others. We examine the determinants and consequences of low-balling using more recent data. We provide evidence that auditors are likely to low-ball if they are “Big N” auditors, expect future revenues from non-audit services, or are quoting large, profitable, and important clients. Further, low-balling auditors tend to recoup their initial fee discounts in subsequent periods via increases in audit and non-audit fees. We also find that clients of low-balling auditors are more likely to restate in the subsequent period. Our findings suggest that low-balling is associated with greater future economic dependence on the client and have implications for auditor independence and audit quality.

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Myojung and Kwon, Soo Young and Krishnan, Gopal, Determinants of Low-Balling of Audit Fees and Subsequent Recovery (September 12, 2016). Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2016/14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838908
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,670
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies