Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Company Audits and City-Specific Labor Characteristics

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2016 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Matthew Beck

Michigan State University; Michigan State University, The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management, Students

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 13, 2016

Abstract

Prior research emphasizes the centrality of audit offices in understanding auditing practices, and documents significant inter-office variation in audit outcomes based on industry expertise and office size. Our study examines how two city-specific labor characteristics also affect audit offices and local audit markets: the city’s average educational attainment, and the number of accountants in a city, which proxy for a city’s human capital. Our argument draws on the urban economics literature and predicts that the level of human capital in a city is positively associated with an audit office’s ability to conduct high-quality audits. As expected, there is a positive association between audit quality (quality of audited earnings and accuracy of going concern reports) and average education level in the city in which the lead engagement office is located. This association is generally significant for both Big 4 and non-Big 4 offices, but is relatively stronger for non-Big 4 firms that are more tied to local labor markets. A company is also more likely to choose a non-Big 4 auditor in cities with higher educational levels and relatively more accountants, and there is evidence of higher non-Big 4 audit fees as a city’s education level increases. Collectively, these results suggest that local labor characteristics affect audit offices, audit quality, and the ability of non-Big 4 auditors to compete with Big 4 auditors in the audits of public companies.

Keywords: auditor choice, audit quality, earnings quality, audit fees

JEL Classification: J44, M41, M42, R23

Suggested Citation:

Beck, Matthew and Francis, Jere R. and Gunn, Joshua L., Public Company Audits and City-Specific Labor Characteristics (September 13, 2016). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Z J Acs , C Armington
The impact of geographic differences in human capital on service firm formation rates
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 244 - 278 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as compliments: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
G S Becker
Investment in Human Capital: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 9 - 49 Posted: 1962
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Kenneth J. Merkley , Joseph Pacelli , Joseph H. Schroeder
Audit personnel salaries and audit quality
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1096 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Jenna Burke , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
The use and characteristics of foreign component auditors in U.S. multinational audits: Insights from Form AP disclosures
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 59 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 461
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matthew Crook , Tamara A. Lambert , Brian Walkup , James Whitworth
All My Rowdy Friends: The Effect of Super Bowl Hosting on Audit Timing
Managerial Auditing Journal · 42 Pages · Posted: 24 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 2 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahsan Habib , Julia Wu , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Xuan (Sean) Sun
Determinants of Auditor Choice: Review of the Empirical Literature
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 308-335, 2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
208,171
9 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies