Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Audit Fee Cuts during the Global Financial Crisis and Earnings Quality and Audit Quality

55 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2016

Long Chen

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Wei Yu

Hunter College - City University of New York

Date Written: September 15, 2016

Abstract

The Global Financial Crisis (GFC) presents a unique opportunity to study how auditors respond to an exogenous shock to the clients’ operating environment. Also, due to the GFC, auditors were under pressure from clients to cut audit fees during the crisis. Regulators were concerned that lower audit fees could result in lower audit effort, and more importantly, impair audit quality. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of multiple attributes of client firms’ earnings quality and audit quality. Collectively, our findings indicate that there is no significant difference in earnings quality between client firms that received a fee cut during the GFC and control firms consisting of firms that did not receive a fee cut and firms that received a fee cut before the GFC. Further, there is no significant difference in the likelihood of a going concern opinion or a financial restatement, our proxies for audit quality, between client firms that received a fee cut during the GFC and control firms. Our findings contribute to understanding the role of auditors during the GFC.

Keywords: Financial Crisis, Audit Fees, Earnings Quality, Going Concern

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Long and Krishnan, Gopal and Yu, Wei, The Relation between Audit Fee Cuts during the Global Financial Crisis and Earnings Quality and Audit Quality (September 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2839901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
C W Alderman , J W Deitrick
Auditor perceptions of time budget pressures and premature sign-offs: a replication and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 1 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities: Report, Conclusions, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
Crossref
AU Section 341: The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,001
RANK
108,060
3 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies