Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Experience Effects and the Auditor's Judgment Performance in the Identification of Client's Business Risks and Entity-Level Controls

41 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2016

Niels van Nieuw Amerongen

Nyenrode Business University

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: February 01, 2010

Abstract

We examine the effect of general, task and industry experience on auditor performance related to the identification of client’s business risks (CBR) and identification of entity level controls (ELC) in a construction company. We find the following: (1) increased general experience is only helpful in the ELC task (not the CBR task) and only at a relatively high level of experience; (2) task-experience does not have an effect on either the CBR or ELC task; and (3) industry experience is particularly relevant for the CBR task (not the ELC task) at a moderate level of experience. In general, we observe that performance on tasks where declarative knowledge is relatively more important (CBR) is improved by industry experience, while performance on tasks where procedural knowledge is relatively more important (ELC) is improved by a high level of general experience.

Keywords: audit methodology, client’s business risk, audit risk, judgment performance

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

van Nieuw Amerongen, Niels and Knechel, Warren Robert, Industry Experience Effects and the Auditor's Judgment Performance in the Identification of Client's Business Risks and Entity-Level Controls (February 01, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2839865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M J Abdolmohammadi , A M Wright
An Examination of the Effects of Experience and Task Complexity on Audit Judgments
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987-01
S S Ahlawat
Order Effects and Memory for Evidence in Individual versus Group Decision Making in Auditing
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 12 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 109 Posted: 2006
Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 110 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,263
RANK
280,691
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies