Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prepopulating Audit Workpapers with Prior Year Assessments: Default Option Effects on Risk Rating Accuracy

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2016 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Sarah E. Bonner

University of Southern California

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Stacey Ritter

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

Risk assessment is a critical audit task, as auditors’ accuracy therein affects audit effectiveness and financial reporting quality, as well as audit efficiency. We propose that risk assessment accuracy for client risks that have changed from the prior year is affected by the manner in which auditors access prior year risk assessments, specifically whether they face a default option created by the prepopulation of current year workpapers with those assessments. We find that auditors with prepopulated (versus blank) workpapers are less accurate for risks that have changed because they are more likely to stick with last year’s assessments, and also to work fast. We then show that auditor characteristics reflecting a preference for accuracy reduce, but do not eliminate, these effects. Finally, we provide exploratory evidence that sticking and working fast are associated with, respectively, motivated reasoning and superficial processing. Collectively, these findings suggest the critical need for an intervention, and also have implications outside auditing.

Keywords: Default options, prepopulation, prior year results, audit workpapers, risk assessment, audit effectiveness, audit efficiency, auditor characteristics

JEL Classification: M40, M42, D80, D91

Suggested Citation:

Bonner, Sarah E. and Majors, Tracie McDonald and Ritter, Stacey, Prepopulating Audit Workpapers with Prior Year Assessments: Default Option Effects on Risk Rating Accuracy (May 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2841050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2841050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
R Allen , D Hermanson , T Kozloski , R Ramsay
Auditor Risk Assessment: Insights from the Academic Literature
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 157 - 177 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Anderson , L Reder
An Elaborative Processing Explanation of Depth of Processing
Levels of Processing in Human Memory Posted: 1979
J Arbuckle
IBM SPSS AMOS 24 Users Guide Posted: 2016
L Bamber , V Iyer
Big 5 Auditors' Professional and Organizational Identification: Consistency or Conflict?
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 21 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,163
RANK
202,182
4 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies