Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SOX 404 Internal Control Audit: Key Regulatory Events

Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 27, October 2015

Posted: 28 Sep 2016

Chan Li

University of Kansas

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Da Wu

University of North Texas, Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Section 404b of the 2002 Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) requires auditors to attest to the effectiveness of a client’s internal control over financial reporting (ICFR). In this paper, we provide an overview of key regulatory events in the implementation of the 404 internal control audit. We discuss the early years (under Auditing Standard No. 2) as well as the later years (under Auditing Standard No. 5) of the 404 audit, emphasizing areas of improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit as well as the remaining problems and challenges highlighted in PCAOB inspection reports and practice alerts. Finally, we address recent regulatory developments pertinent to the 404 audit such as Auditing Standard No. 12 and the recent 2013 update to the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission’s (COSO) internal control framework.

Keywords: SOX 404 audit, internal control

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chan and Raman, K. K. and Sun, Lili and Wu, Da, The SOX 404 Internal Control Audit: Key Regulatory Events (2015). Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 27, October 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2842799
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,809
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies