Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spatial Competition in Local Audit Markets and the Fall-Out on Deloitte from the 2007 PCAOB Censure

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, (May 2017), 36(2): 1-20.

Posted: 24 Sep 2016 Last revised: 10 May 2017

Jeff P. Boone

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: September 23, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether Deloitte's spatial location in local audit markets affected the firm's adverse fall-out - in terms of decreased ability to retain new clients and maintain audit fees - from the 2007 PCAOB censure. We motivate our inquiry by the notion that auditor-client alignment and auditor-closest competitor distance can help differentiate the incumbent Big 4 auditor from other Big 4 auditors and thus provide market power, i.e., inhibit clients from shopping for another supplier because of the lack of a similar Big 4 provider in the local audit market. Consequently, it seems reasonable that the increase in switching risk and loss of fee growth suffered by Deloitte following the 2007 PCAOB censure will be lower in local markets where Deloitte was the market leader and its market-share distance from its closest competitor was greater. Our findings suggest that the decline in Deloitte’s audit fee growth rate following the 2007 PCAOB censure was concentrated in the pharmaceutical industry, although the client loss rate appears to have occurred more broadly (across all cities and industries). Collectively, our findings suggest that audit quality issues override auditor market power, i.e., differentiation does not provide Big 4 firms market power in the face of adverse regulatory action.

Keywords: PCAOB, Big 4 auditors, Local audit markets, Spatial competition

JEL Classification: G18; L51; M42; M49

Suggested Citation:

Boone, Jeff P. and Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K., Spatial Competition in Local Audit Markets and the Fall-Out on Deloitte from the 2007 PCAOB Censure (September 23, 2016). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, (May 2017), 36(2): 1-20., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2842819
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies