Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Cost of Debt in the Republic of Serbia

Teme, 40(2), 869–882.

17 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2016

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Nikola Stefanovic

Singidunum University

Tijana Radojevic

Singidunum University

Date Written: June 2016

Abstract

This study explores the determinants of the cost of corporate debt in the Republic of Serbia. It covers 4,701 companies during 2008-2013, representing more than 90% of all medium-sized and large companies actively operating in the country. In this particular market, the cost of corporate debt is influenced by the following factors: Euribor rates, sector membership, size of a company, short-term and total leverage of a company, interest coverage ratio, the presence of the shareholder capital, ownership structure as pertaining to the state or foreign ownership, and the type of audit opinion. After accounting for these factors, the pseudo R2 yields 77%. At the same time, the type of an audit opinion is shown to be the single most important predictor of the cost of debt in the country, contributing to the pseudo R2 with approximately 2,900 basis points. Therefore, the companies operating in the Republic of Serbia seeking a more affordable cost of debt should pay special attention to the quality of their financial reports.

Keywords: cost of debt, audit opinion, default risk, ownership structure

JEL Classification: G31

Suggested Citation:

Stanisic, Nemanja and Stefanovic, Nikola and Radojevic, Tijana, Determinants of the Cost of Debt in the Republic of Serbia (June 2016). Teme, 40(2), 869–882., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2843236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M P Arena , M Dewally
Firm location and corporate debt
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , p. 1079 - 1092 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,750
RANK
314,322
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies