Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Qualified Auditors' Opinions on Share Prices: Evidence from Tunis

14 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2016

Akari Salim

University of Manouba

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

Audit plays a key role in the process of communication between the company and users of financial statements. Theoretically, the relevance of the audit report where the auditor decides to issue an audit report is clear. This is because considerable evidence supports simultaneous or delayed correlation between earnings announcements and changes in stock prices (Ball and Brown, 1968).

This study aims to investigate the effect of qualified audit reports on share prices and the returns in Tunisia. A market-based study conducted on the qualified audit reports of the shareholding companies in Tunisia during the period 2010-2012. The conclusions of the study showed that there is no clear or significant effect of a qualified audit opinion on share prices and returns.

Keywords: Auditing, Qualified Auditors' Opinions, Share Prices and Returns

Suggested Citation:

Salim, Akari, The Effect of Qualified Auditors' Opinions on Share Prices: Evidence from Tunis (October 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2006
Al-Thuneibat
The effect of qualified auditors' opinions on share prices: evidence from Jordan »,Managerial Auditing Journa , volume 23 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2008
C Ameen , C M Elsie , M D Guffey
Information content of the qualified audit opinions for over-the-counter firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 997 - 1011 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R -Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Oğuzhan ECE , Bülent Diclehan ÇADIRCI
DENETİM RAPOR TÜRLERİNİN FİRMA DEĞERİ ÜZERİNDEKİ ETKİLERİNİN ANALİZİ
Uluslararası İktisadi ve İdari İncelemeler Dergisi , issue 36 , p. 131 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Amine El Badlaoui , Mariam Cherqaoui
Value relevance of audit opinions in an emerging market: evidence from Morocco
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2023
Crossref
Rana Bayo Flees , Sulaiman Mouselli
The impact of qualified audit opinion on stock returns: an empirical study at Amman stock exchange
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 633 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,055
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,792
RANK
48,555
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies