Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Assurance to Insurance: Making Audit Relevant Again

33 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2016

Christian Mouillon

Independent

François Lherm

ESCP Europe and Deloitte Research Chair; Excellency Laboratory for Financial Regulation (LabEx RéFi)

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

In a context of overarching concerns about the value of an audit and the relevance of the accounting profession, regulators have reported numerous failures in the audit of estimates and interpreted it as a lack of professional skepticism by auditors. This report addresses this conundrum with a view to inform regulators’ and standard-setters’ efforts to reduce the information and expectation gaps.

Based on the results of an investigation into how experienced auditors actually address the most challenging estimates, it suggests that a shift from an assurance approach of audit to an insurance approach would structurally ensure the relevance of an audit in addressing challenging estimates and enhance communication to investors.

This would provide an unprecedented opportunity to reduce the expectation and information gaps, and unleash audit’s full potential in the best interest of its stakeholders and society as a whole.

Keywords: Audit of accounting estimates, expectation gap, information gap, professional skepticism, audit insurance

Suggested Citation:

Mouillon, Christian and Lherm, François, From Assurance to Insurance: Making Audit Relevant Again (October 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
François Lherm
The Jurisdiction of Comfort: Auditing Beyond Auditability. An Investigation into the Use of Professional Scepticism in the Audit of Estimates
Pages: 60 Posted: 4 Oct 2016 Last revised: 30 Nov 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F R Lherm
From assurance to insurance: reassembling audit around the jurisdiction of comfort Posted: 2016
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on Auditing High-Uncertainty Fair Value Estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
N H Cannon , J C Bedard
Auditing Challenging Fair Value Measurements: Evidence from the Field
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
508,508
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies