Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Jurisdiction of Comfort: Auditing Beyond Auditability. An Investigation into the Use of Professional Scepticism in the Audit of Estimates

60 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2016 Last revised: 30 Nov 2016

François Lherm

ESCP Europe and Deloitte Research Chair; Excellency Laboratory for Financial Regulation (LabEx RéFi)

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

Regulators all over the world have observed a puzzling failure of the practitioners to audit estimates, and castigated auditors for their lack of professional scepticism.

This article suggests that this difficulty is caused by a paradox in the very attempt to assure estimates based on evidence: if auditors could obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to assess estimates reasonableness, then estimates would not be inherently uncertain in the first place.

Contrary to existing research which tends to ignore or avoid this paradox, this empirical interpretive study investigates into how highly experienced auditors manage, in spite of this paradox, to justify their opinion as to the reasonableness of the most challenging estimates. Auditing failure appears to be caused more by the inadequacy of evidence-based audit to assure estimates, rather than by auditors’ lack of professional consciousness. Analysis further unveils that auditors best address the most uncertain cases in a practice that extends auditability beyond conformity, called the “Jurisdiction of Comfort”, i.e., the area in which comfort has alone the authority to tell reasonableness. 

These insights clarify the current failure in assuring estimates and point to a plausible alternative. To practice, they indicate venues to redefine scepticism and redesign the auditing standards. To theory, the “Jurisdiction of Comfort” suggests an understanding of audit that differs from both realism and constructivism and may complement Boltanski and Thévenot’s pragmatics of reflexion.

However, to unleash auditors’ actual ability to address uncertainty, we still need to find a way to make the use of comfort legitimate in the making of an audit opinion.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Audit of estimates, Jurisdiction of comfort, Economies of Worth, Auditability

Suggested Citation:

Lherm, François, The Jurisdiction of Comfort: Auditing Beyond Auditability. An Investigation into the Use of Professional Scepticism in the Audit of Estimates (October 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Aicpa
Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2015
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on Auditing High-Uncertainty Fair Value Estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Boltanski , L Thévenot
De la justification : les économies de la grandeur Posted: 1991
L Boltanski , L Thévenot
On Justification: Economies of Worth Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
302,340
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies