Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Auditors Order Their Tasks, and How Does Task Ordering Affect Performance?

51 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016

Robert P. Mocadlo

University of North Dakota - College of Business & Public Administration

Date Written: September 22, 2016

Abstract

I examine how the subjectivity of task criteria influences auditors’ ordering and performance of audit tasks under time pressure. Tasks with more objective criteria provide little flexibility in how well they can be completed (i.e. they are either performed correctly or incorrectly). On the other hand, tasks with more subjective criteria have a wider range of performance levels that satisfy the “letter” of the criteria, but not necessarily the “spirit.” I predict and find that under high time pressure, auditors tend to prioritize completion of an objective task over a subjective task, resulting in lower performance on the subjective task relative to when time pressure is low. By decreasing performance only on subjective tasks, auditors can address all of the criteria for both tasks if only in letter, rather than in spirit. I predict that this effect will be mitigated by informing auditors of heightened inherent risk related to the subjective task. While I find that auditors have an increased likelihood of performing the subjective task first when this task has higher inherent risk, I do not find differences in performance on either task relative to when inherent risk for both tasks was the same.

Keywords: Auditing, Task performance, Task complexity, Time pressurem, Audit risk

Suggested Citation:

Mocadlo, Robert Paul, How Do Auditors Order Their Tasks, and How Does Task Ordering Affect Performance? (September 22, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
H Agnew
Auditors go high-tech to win new business
Financial Times Posted: 2015-08-03
C W Alderman , J W Deitrick
Auditors' perceptions of time budget pressures and premature sign-offs: A replication and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A G Backof , E M Bamber , T Carpenter
Do auditor judgment frameworks help in constraining aggressive reporting? Evidence under more precise and less precise accounting standards. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 51 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
403,275
9 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies