Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Conservatism

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016

46 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2016

Essam Elshafie

Northeastern Illinois University

Date Written: October 9, 2016

Abstract

Lu and Sapra (2009) provide a theoretical framework to investigate the causes and effects of auditor conservatism. They refer to the attestation of an auditor who, when in doubt, disapproves a favorable client report as auditor conservatism. In this paper I examine several factors that affect auditor conservatism. The majority of the extant research in this area uses accounting conservatism measures, such as the level of discretionary accruals or the Basu (1997) model to measure auditor conservatism. In this paper I use a new measure of auditor conservatism based on issuing an adverse internal control report for clients with no financial statements restatements, and I examine the effect of client’s business risk, litigation risk, and client pressure on auditor conservatism. In addition, I examine the effect auditor conservatism has on information risk and audit fees. Data are collected over the period of 2004 to 2012, from Audit Analytics, Compustat, the Stanford Securities Class Action Clearinghouse website, and CRSP. The results show that auditor conservatism is positively affected by client business risk and the litigation risk, and negatively affected by client pressure. In addition, the results show that auditor conservatism reduces the information asymmetry and leads to an increase in audit fees.

Keywords: Auditor Conservatism, Determinants of Auditor Conservatism, Consequences of Auditor Conservatism, Auditor Conservatism Measures

Suggested Citation:

Elshafie, Essam, Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Conservatism (October 9, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and Auditor-Client Negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services, an Integrated Approach , volume 15 Posted: 2014
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal Of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,201
RANK
202,182
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies