Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Comfort with Uncertain Estimates: More Evidence Is Not Always Better

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2016 Last revised: 10 Jan 2019

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

Prior research generally presumes that auditors are more comfortable with better-supported management estimates because more support reduces the chance of misstatement; however, information processing theory suggests that auditor comfort is only increasing in evidential support to the extent that they need more support to be confident in their beliefs. Once auditors are confident, more support can make them less comfortable because it presents a potential challenge to their beliefs. I investigate this notion using an experiment with experienced auditors. I find that when estimate uncertainty is extreme, auditors are more comfortable with more evidential support; however, I find that when estimate uncertainty is moderate, auditors are more comfortable with less evidential support. Consistent with processing theory, further analyses reveal that more support provided in the moderate uncertainty condition did not change auditors’ confidence in their estimates but was perceived to make their estimates more difficult to defend. These findings highlight how auditors’ desires and needs to defend their judgments impact how they evaluate evidential support early in the audit process.

Keywords: Auditing estimates; auditor judgments; audit evidence; auditor comfort; uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Rowe, Stephen P., Auditors’ Comfort with Uncertain Estimates: More Evidence Is Not Always Better (January 1, 2019). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2856624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A G Backof
The Impact of Audit Evidence Documentation on Jurors' Negligence Verdicts and Damage Awards
Dx.Doi.org , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Crossref
O Barron , J H Pratt , J D Stice
Misstatement direction, litigation risk, and planned audit investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 449 - 462 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M H Bazerman
Judgment Under Uncertainty
A Normative Background to Risk , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 2001
T B Bell , M Peecher , I Solomon
The 21th Century Public Company Audit. Conceptual Elements of KPMG's Global Audit Methodology , p. 1 - 96 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
339,352
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies