Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Content of the Audit Report in the Year Prior to Bankruptcy Filing. Empirical Evidence from Spain

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, (Forthcoming)

50 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2016

Nora Muñoz-Izquierdo

- Colegio Universitario de Estudios Financieros (CUNEF)

Maria‐del‐Mar Camacho‐Miñano

- Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

David Pascual‐Ezama

Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM)

Date Written: October 4, 2016

Abstract

This paper analyses empirically the content of the audit report of financially distressed firms in the year prior to bankruptcy filing, with a double purpose: to propose a classification of the content of audit reports and to examine the differences on the document depending on several features of the auditor and the audited firm. Using a sample of Spanish financially distressed companies from 2004 to 2014, results show that 13% are clean reports or reports that do not contain any disclosures, and qualifications are more frequent than matter paragraphs. 23% of paragraphs inform about filing for insolvency legal proceedings and 45% are related to going concern uncertainties. Additionally, there is evidence of significant differences in the content of the audit report depending on auditor size, industry and financial condition of the audited firm, the quarter on which the court order is imposed and the resolution of the bankruptcy procedure, whereas comments are independent from a change in auditor. Our evidence suggests the usefulness of the audit report in predicting financial distress risk, and this usefulness will be incremented due to the implementation of the new Audit Law in Spain, as it requires mentioning any financial risks when going concern uncertainties may exist.

Keywords: bankruptcy filing, audit report, emphasis of matter paragraphs, qualifications, going concern

JEL Classification: G33, M42

Suggested Citation:

Muñoz-Izquierdo, Nora and Camacho-Miñano, María-del-Mar and Pascual‐Ezama, David, The Content of the Audit Report in the Year Prior to Bankruptcy Filing. Empirical Evidence from Spain (October 4, 2016). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Bloque
Según el hecho detectado, el auditor utiliza uno de estos tres tipos de párrafos para reflejarlo en su informe: énfasis, salvedad por limitación al alcance o salvedad por
Este tipo de párrafo se utiliza para destacar algún aspecto que se juzga muy relevante, aunque ya esté recogido en la información preparada por la entidad auditada
Párrafo de salvedad por limitación al alcance. Se utiliza para informar de situaciones que han impedido al auditor aplicar los procedimientos necesarios para obtener evidencia
Párrafo de salvedad por incumplimiento de principios y criterios contables. Se utiliza para comunicar la existencia de errores e incumplimientos importantes del marco normativo aplicable, así como la omisión de informaciones obligatorias
Load more
2 Citations
Nora Muñoz-Izquierdo , Erkki K. Laitinen , María‐del‐Mar Camacho‐Miñano , David Pascual‐Ezama
Does Audit Report Information Improve Financial Distress Prediction Over Altman's Traditional Z‐Score Model?
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Vol. 31, Issue 1, pp. 65-97, 2020 · 33 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Downloads: 11
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
María-del-Mar Camacho-Miñano , Nora Muñoz-Izquierdo , Morton P.K. Pincus , Patricia Wellmeyer
Are Key Audit Matter Disclosures Useful in Assessing the Financial Distress Level of a Firm?
Forthcoming in The British Accounting Review · 58 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 23 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 1,070
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
301,137
2 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies