Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Re-Release of Going-Concern Opinions and Market Reaction

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 47, No. 3, 2017

56 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2016 Last revised: 1 Aug 2017

Sarfraz Khan

University of Louisiana at Lafayette

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Emeka T. Nwaeze

University of Texas - San Antonio; Rutgers Business School - Camden

Date Written: October 19, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the market reaction to the public announcement of going-concern (GC) opinions through the news media. In the early 2000s, NASDAQ and AMEX required firms listed on their exchanges to announce publicly previously disclosed information, such as the issuance of a GC opinion, through a press release or the news media. We examine the stock market reaction to the re-release of GC opinions. We find significant abnormal stock return volatility and trading volume at the re-release of this information. Further, based on an analysis of intraday transactions, we find higher abnormal trading activity in small trades around the re-release of the GC opinion, but largely no changes in large trades during the same period. In this respect, the investors that initiate the small trades act as if they are surprised by the information contained in the press release of GC opinions. Such an action, in turn, can be viewed as evidence of a delayed response to the information in GC opinions by a section of investors.

Keywords: Going-Concern Opinion, News-Media, Press-Release, Trade Sizes, Market-Reaction

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Sarfraz and Lobo, Gerald J. and Nwaeze, Emeka T., Public Re-Release of Going-Concern Opinions and Market Reaction (October 19, 2016). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 47, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 49 - 79
Crossref
M Geiger , D Rama
Audit Fees, Non-audit Fees, and auditor reporting on stressed companies
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 53 - 69 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Hand
A test of the extended functional fixation hypothesis
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 740 - 763 Posted: 1990
C Hayn
The information content of losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 153 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
409,562
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies