Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing the Auditors: Evaluating the Methodology of Performance Audits

Indian School of Business WP 2871102

24 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2016 Last revised: 8 Dec 2016

Prajapati Trivedi

Indian School of Business; Harvard Kennedy School (HKS), Summer Program

Date Written: October 15, 2016

Abstract

It is hard to deny that the last two decades have witnessed an ‘audit explosion.’ Increasingly, Supreme Audit Institutions in most counties are allocating greater share of their resources for Performance Auditing of government entities. However, this paper finds that serious academic work examining the methodological foundations of Performance Auditing is conspicuous by its absence in the extant literature on Performance Auditing. Much of the literature on the subject comes from various Supreme Audit Institutions. Academics have either only elaborated on the methodology adopted by these Supreme Audit Institutions or taken issue with the magnitude and direction of the impact of Performance Audit on the performance of government entities. This paper seeks to fill an important void in the literature and argues that the current methodology of performance auditing is fundamentally flawed. Using the well-established principles in financial auditing, it points to the necessity for the existence of a ‘performance statement’ before a Performance Audit can be undertaken. The current practice of auditors making this ‘performance statement’ ex-post violates a well-established norm – the creator of a performance statement cannot be the auditor of the same statement. The paper then goes on to suggest a methodology for developing performance statements and auditing them.

Keywords: Auditing, Auditors, Performance Audits

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Trivedi, Prajapati, Auditing the Auditors: Evaluating the Methodology of Performance Audits (October 15, 2016). Indian School of Business WP 2871102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2871102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2871102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
RANK
170,582
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies