Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Materiality and Assurance of Environmental and Social Disclosures on Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy

29 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2016 Last revised: 3 Dec 2016

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: October 12, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of this paper is to evaluate the effect of the materiality and external assurance of environmental and social (E&S) disclosures on analysts’ forecast accuracy.

Design/methodology/approach: Hypotheses were evaluated using panel data regression with firm-time fixed effects and robust standard errors clustered at the firm level. A materiality disclosure index was computed by hand-matching the GRI’s sector-specific guidelines with ASSET4’s scores for an international sample of companies in 6 sectors. Heckman two-stage regressions were used to account for a potential endogeneity problem.

Findings: The results show a statistically significant positive association between the level of material E&S disclosures and analysts’ accuracy. They also indicate that the effect of external assurance on analysts’ forecast accuracy depends on the level of materiality.

Originality/value: This paper contributes to the ESG/CSR disclosure literature by isolating the effects of the E&S performance and material disclosures on the accuracy of analysts, the mediators of the relationship between CSR performance and Corporate Financial Performance (CFP). Furthermore, it extends findings of previous authors by showing that the effect of external assurance provided by auditing firms on analysts’ accuracy depends on the report’s level of materiality. These findings have direct relevance for firms, proponents of sector-specific ESG disclosure guidelines, and auditing firms.

Keywords: CSR, ESG, disclosure, forecast accuracy, assurance

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos, Effects of Materiality and Assurance of Environmental and Social Disclosures on Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy (October 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2872206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2872206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,006
RANK
202,849
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies