Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Data Analytics Use: An Exploratory Analysis

28 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2016 Last revised: 19 Dec 2016

Clark Hampton

University of Waterloo

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 29, 2016

Abstract

The goal of this study is to understand the current state of audit data analytics use (i.e., the leveraging of data analytics in the performance of audits) within the Canadian audit profession. Based on survey results from 394 Canadian audit practitioners, we explore the following three questions: What is the locus of motivation behind audit data analytics (ADA) use? Does the creation of a supporting environment (e.g., firms provide training opportunities) matter in ADA use? What is the tradeoff between two potential ADA training strategies (i.e., diversity of ADA tools vs. development of ADA expertise)? Research questions are examined using path models estimated with components based structural equation modeling. Our study provides guidance to audit practitioners, professional organizations, and educators concerning current and future ADA initiatives.

Keywords: Audit Data Analytics (ADA), ADA Use, Client Expectations, Audit Opinion Confidence, Litigation Risk, Survey Based Research

JEL Classification: M42, M15

Suggested Citation:

Hampton, Clark and Stratopoulos, Theophanis C., Audit Data Analytics Use: An Exploratory Analysis (November 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2877358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M G Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big Data by the Audit Profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Amoako-Gyampah
An extension of the technology acceptance model in an ERP implementation environment
Information & Management , volume 41 , issue 6 , p. 731 - 745 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R L Braun , H E Davis
Computer-assisted audit tools and techniques: analysis and perspectives
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 18 , issue 9 , p. 725 - 731 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Brown-Liburd , H Issa , D Lombardi
Behavioral Implications of Big Data's Impact on Audit Judgment and Decision Making and Future Research Directions
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 451 - 468 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,254
RANK
28,674
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies