Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Sustainability Performance and Accounting Assurors in Sustainability Assurance Engagements

60 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2016 Last revised: 31 Mar 2017

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christian Schlick

Independent

Matthias S. Fifka

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

Research on sustainability assurance is still in its beginnings. One of the key questions in this field that also is of the highest practical relevance is concerned with the quality of the assurance process. However, a common understanding of assurance quality and how it should be measured is still missing. We try to close this gap by building on the financial audit literature. We introduce a definition of assurance quality that comprises two key aspects: the depth of the assurance process and the breadth of the assurance statement. Based on prior research, we hypothesize that a firm’s sustainability performance is related to the depth of the assurance process, while the type of the assurance provider, more precisely the affiliation to the accounting profession, is related to the breadth of the assurance statement. Results for a sample of 122 European firms reveal a negative relationship between sustainability performance and assurance process depth as well as between the affiliation to the accounting profession and assurance statement breadth. Thus, we find evidence that poor sustainability performers ask for in-depth assurance services, most likely as a means to enhance their internal sustainability-related processes and systems. Assurance providers that do not belong to the accounting profession in turn are associated with broader assurance statements.

Keywords: sustainability assurance, sustainability reporting, assurance quality, content analysis, sustainability performance, accounting assuror

Suggested Citation:

Hummel, Katrin and Schlick, Christian and Fifka, Matthias S., The Role of Sustainability Performance and Accounting Assurors in Sustainability Assurance Engagements (January 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2878777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2878777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2008
A Ball , D L Owen , R Gray
External transparency or internal capture? The role of third-party statements in adding value to corporate environmental reports
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P M Bentler , C P Chou
Practical issues in structural modelling
Sociological Methods and Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 78 - 117 Posted: 1987
Crossref
A D Blay , M A Geiger
Auditor fees and auditor independence. Evidence from going concern reporting decisions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 579 - 606 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,064
RANK
133,571
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies