Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Impact of Corruption on Audit Fees?

Public Money & Management

24 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2016 Last revised: 19 Dec 2017

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

A.K.M. Waresul Karim

Saint Mary's College of California - Graduate Business Programs

Andrew Mahoney

Independent

Date Written: September 18, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the impact of country level corruption on audit fees. Using a sample of 102,934 firm year observations on companies from 48 countries over the period 1998-2014, we find that audit fees are positively associated with higher levels of corruption. We also find that corruption adds a significant margin to the large premium paid to BIG_4 auditors. The study opens up a new line of research and adds to the literature on the BIG_4 audit premium.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Big-4 Premium, Corruption

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony and Karim, A.K.M. Waresul and Mahoney, Andrew, What is the Impact of Corruption on Audit Fees? (September 18, 2017). Public Money & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2880077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,695
RANK
339,352
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies