Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are External Auditors Concerned About Cyber Incidents? Evidence from Audit Fees

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

47 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2016 Last revised: 24 Nov 2021

He Li

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE); Rutgers Business School

Won Gyun No

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 24, 2018

Abstract

While the importance of addressing cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents is widely acknowledged, there is no explicit requirement by regulators or audit standard setters for auditors to do so. This paper investigates 1) whether external auditors respond to cyber incidents by charging higher audit fees, 2) whether they anticipate and price material cybersecurity risk before cyber incidents occur, and 3) whether increases in audit fees for firms experiencing a cyber incident in the current period are associated with subsequent cyber incidents. We define cyber incidents as cyber-attacks that are initiated by hackers as distinct from various other information security and privacy breaches where the consequences are far less severe than those resulting from attacks by hackers. We find that only cyber incidents are associated with increases in audit fees and that the association is driven by more severe incidents. We also provide some evidence that increases in audit fees are smaller for firms with prior cybersecurity risk disclosure after 2011 when the SEC issued cybersecurity disclosure guidance. Finally, larger increases in audit fees for firms experiencing cyber incidents in the current period are associated with a lower likelihood of subsequent cyber incidents.

Keywords: Cyber incident, Hacking, Cyber risk disclosure, Audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Li, He and Li, He and No, Won Gyun and Boritz, Efrim, Are External Auditors Concerned About Cyber Incidents? Evidence from Audit Fees (June 24, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2880928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,561
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,053
RANK
27,336
17 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies