Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Skepticism and Auditor Judgment: Does Trait Skepticism Mitigate the Recency Bias?

42 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2016

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Annette Köhler

University of Duisburg-Essen

Kristina Yankova

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

In two experiments with experienced auditors, we examine whether and how trait skepticism mitigates the tendency to place a greater emphasis on the most recently presented information, the so-called recency bias. We measure trait skepticism using the Hurtt scale (Hurtt 2010), manipulate information order, and vary presentation mode across two experiments. When information is presented sequentially (experiment 1), we find that auditors who score higher on the subconstructs of trait skepticism related to evidence examination are less likely to overweight contrasting evidence and thus are less prone to the recency bias. When information is presented simultaneously and the task is complex (experiment 2), we observe that auditors with higher trait skepticism exhibit higher cognitive effort which mitigates the recency bias. Our main contribution is the identification and detailed investigation of trait skepticism as a factor mitigating the recency bias, thereby providing evidence for its behavioral manifestation.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Trait Skepticism, Auditor Judgment, Recency

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Koch, Christopher and Köhler, Annette and Yankova, Kristina, Professional Skepticism and Auditor Judgment: Does Trait Skepticism Mitigate the Recency Bias? (December 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2880653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
S K Asare
The auditor's going-concern decision: Interaction of task variables and the sequential processing of evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 379 - 93 Posted: 1992
A H Ashton , R H Ashton
Sequential belief revision in auditing
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 623 - 664 Posted: 1988
R H Ashton , J Kennedy
Eliminating recency with self-review: The case of auditors' "going concern" judgments
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 221 - 252 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E M M Bamber , R J Ramsay , R M Tubbs
An examination of the descriptive validity of the belief-adjustment model and alternative attitudes to evidence in auditing Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,534
RANK
61,956
4 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies