Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Pricing Competitiveness of the Japanese Market: Evidence from the Big 4 to Big 3 Transition

Posted: 14 Dec 2016

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Date Written: December 11, 2016

Abstract

Our study aims to investigate the effect of transition from Big 4 to Big 3 audit market on audit pricing competitiveness using a sample of Japanese listed firms from 2004 to 2014. First, we compare Big N audit fee premium earned from clients in large and small market segments. We find an indication of a non-competitive audit pricing market where larger clients pay higher audit fee premium to Big N firms during the Big 4 period (2004-2005). However, audit market pricing between Big N and non-Big N auditors becomes more competitive after the transition. We also find negative and non-significant association between audit market concentration and audit fee for both Big N and non-Big N auditors. This result suggests that the pricing of audit market among individual audit firms remains competitive, except for a subsample of large size clients in the Big 3 period (2006-2014).

Keywords: audit market competition, market concentration, audit fee, Big 4, Big N, Japan

JEL Classification: D40, M41, M42, L11

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy, Audit Pricing Competitiveness of the Japanese Market: Evidence from the Big 4 to Big 3 Transition (December 11, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2883916
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies