Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors That Determine the Fees for Audit NGOs Financial Statements in Kosovo

Academic Journal of Business, Administration, Law and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 1, March 2016

6 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2016

Bahtijar Berisha

University of Prizren

Dr.Sc. Luan Vardari

University of Prizren

Bekim Berisha

University of Prizren

Date Written: March 16, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to identify, analyze and evaluate the potential factors that influence the determinants of the fee/price of the NGOs financial statements audit in Kosovo based and tested, generally, traditional determinants and known in economic literature on this issue. In our study, we have chosen the NGO sector in Kosovo to investigate the factors that determine the fee/price of their financial statements, because the non-governmental organizations are among the first organizations that have gone through the audit process after war disintegration of former Yugoslavia, and to our knowledge no similar research was undertaken. The study is generally based on data collected through a questionnaire, sector financial audit of NGOs in Kosovo’s reality, focusing on the group of respondents who are professional in this field as statutory auditors, certified auditors and certified accountants.

By the results of this analysis related to the importance variables of the model, it was found that the size, complexity, audit risk, NGO audit market, competition, international character and the number of donors who fund NGOs and the number of projects they develop, have a significant impact on the fee/price of the financial audit of NGOs Kosovo.

Keywords: NGOs, Financial Statements, Financial Audit

JEL Classification: L31, M42, H83

Suggested Citation:

Berisha, Bahtijar and Vardari, Luan and Berisha, Bekim, Factors That Determine the Fees for Audit NGOs Financial Statements in Kosovo (March 16, 2016). Academic Journal of Business, Administration, Law and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 1, March 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2886042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2886042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,652
RANK
496,121
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies