Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Classification Shifting and Big 4 Audit Fee Premium

8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017

Posted: 23 Dec 2016

Naman Desai

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad

Joshy Jacob

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad

Neerav Nagar

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Date Written: October 6, 2016

Abstract

Classification shifting involves misclassifying operating expenses as non-recurring expenses to inflate the core earnings of the company. Managers are motivated to misclassify earnings because the market participants focus more on core earnings rather than just the bottom line GAAP earnings. Classification shifting does not lead to a change in the GAAP based net income and hence also limits the scrutiny of regulators and auditors. Though prior research indicates that Big 4 auditors are better than Non-Big 4 auditors in preventing accruals based earnings management, systematic evidence on former’s ability in curbing such misclassification is surely missing. Therefore we extend prior research and examine if Big 4 auditors are relatively more likely to reduce classification shifting compared to Non-Big 4 auditors. Our results indicate that clients of Big 4 auditors report significantly lower levels of classification shifting compared to clients of Non-Big 4 auditors. Additionally, our results also indicate that Big 4 auditors charge higher fees than Non-Big 4 auditors and such higher fees are associated with a significant reduction in classification shifting.

Keywords: Classification Shifting, Big 4 Auditors, Audit Fee Premium

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Naman and Jacob, Joshy and Nagar, Neerav, Classification Shifting and Big 4 Audit Fee Premium (October 6, 2016). 8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2889256
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies