Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Persistence and Dynamics of Big 4 Real Audit Fees: Evidence from the UK

Posted: 29 Dec 2016

Marek Kacer

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre (CMRC); Leeds University Business School (LUBS) - Accounting and Finance Division; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Economics in Bratislava

David A. Peel

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Michael J. Peel

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Nick Wilson

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: December 29, 2016

Abstract

Despite the huge audit pricing literature, there is a dearth of evidence on the temporal dynamics of audit fee adjustments and the persistence of audit prices. Based on a sample of 76,867 panel observations for a sample of UK listed and unlisted companies audited by the big 4 over the period 1998 to 2012, we employ consistent lagged dependent variable panel estimators to provide new evidence on the dynamics of real big 4 audit prices, together with their equilibrium convergence speed. Contrary to extant research, which assumes that audit fees adjust immediately into equilibrium in a single period, our empirical results indicate that real big 4 audit prices are persistent, being partly dependent on previous realisations of audit fees. We conclude that static audit fee models omit a potentially important temporal dimension of audit pricing behaviour and that further research is warranted in a wider context and across other jurisdictions.

Keywords: real audit fees, big 4, partial adjustment, persistence, adjustment speed, dynamic panel estimates, listed and unlisted companies

JEL Classification: M42, M49, C4, L11

Suggested Citation:

Kacer, Marek and Peel, David Alan and Peel, Michael J. and Wilson, Nicholas, On the Persistence and Dynamics of Big 4 Real Audit Fees: Evidence from the UK (December 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891298
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies