Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Big Being Beautiful Makes the Small Ugly?: Audit Firm Market in the Emerging Economy

Posted: 4 Jan 2017

Dr. Rajnish Kumar

Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR)

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines whether the Big-Four audit firms charge higher auditor fees as compared to other audit firms in the emerging economy, using India as a case. The paper also investigates whether there is distinction between the Big-Four audit firms. The results in the paper are established using linear regression as well as propensity score matching framework for 200 randomly selected companies listed on National Stock Exchange for the period from 2001-02 to 2012-13. The analysis reveals that the Big-Four audit firms charge audit and non-audit fees premium from their client and the provision of non-audit services by the audit firms leads to increased audit fee premium. It is also established that Big-Four audit fee premium is general phenomenon rather being specific to any one particular Big-Four as has been established for other countries in the literature, suggesting brand-value reputation hypothesis rather than industry specialization or market leadership hypotheses.

Keywords: Audit Pricing, Big Four, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Rajnish, Does the Big Being Beautiful Makes the Small Ugly?: Audit Firm Market in the Emerging Economy (July 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2892452
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies