Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation and Interpretation of Individual Auditor's Effects on Audit Quality Measures: Evidence from China

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

47 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2017

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

This study examines the validity of conclusions on individual auditor quality obtained using four audit measures with the archival data from China. We argue that for an audit quality measure to effectively identify an auditor’s quality, two conditions must be satisfied: The measure is directly linked to the quality of information audited by the auditor and the measured auditor effect is indeed caused by the auditor. We posit that the conclusion on an auditor’s quality based on an audit quality measure may not be reliable if these two conditions are not satisfied. We then provide empirical evidence that the audit quality estimation models in the extant literature do not provide coherent identifications of individual auditor’s quality. Our results imply that some or all of these models may not be well specified to measure auditor quality, suggesting improvements on these models are required. The empirical results in this paper also suggest that researchers need to exercise caution in interpreting the estimation results of the auditor quality from these existing models in the literature.

Keywords: Audit Quality; Individual Auditor Quality; Quality Measure

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Qi, Baolei and Zhang, Ping, Estimation and Interpretation of Individual Auditor's Effects on Audit Quality Measures: Evidence from China (December 2016). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2893352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
545,548
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies