Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Miscalibration and Its Effects on the Auditability of Accounting Estimates: Evidence from Pension Accounting

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

70 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2017 Last revised: 18 Mar 2017

Ulrich Menzefricke

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: March 16, 2017

Abstract

In this archival study we report three main findings related to auditability of pension accounting estimates. 1. The financial note disclosures of ranges of estimated returns are miscalibrated and provide low credibility of including either the actual or expected returns. 2. The estimated returns are unreliable estimates of the firms’ actual ten-year averages. 3. In some years, the estimated returns have significant risk of material misstatement arising from the uncertainty in the estimation process over the short run. The combination of these findings indicates that the estimates and estimation processes related to estimated returns in pension accounting are not auditable.

Keywords: auditable accounting estimates, auditable note disclosures, audit quality, accounting quality, pension asset returns, estimation uncertainty, significant risk, verifiability

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Menzefricke, Ulrich and Smieliauskas, Wally, Managerial Miscalibration and Its Effects on the Auditability of Accounting Estimates: Evidence from Pension Accounting (March 16, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
610,038
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies