Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Religiosity & Morality Interaction on the Degree of Auditor Independence: The Case of Egypt

39 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2017 Last revised: 25 Jan 2017

Diana Mostafa

The German University in Cairo

K. A. Mohamed Ehab

The German University in Cairo

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Date Written: January 14, 2017

Abstract

The problem of auditor independence has been (and still) a long debatable issue. Major failures to maintain independence were attributed to extended auditor client relationship. The theory of Social Interactionism claims that, auditor independence is theoretically not only a matter of so called socioeconomic/Meso-level factors (raising the interdependence effect between the auditor and the client) but it also tends to be a macro as well as micro levels factors of social interaction. Due to such non-linear relationship, this research intends to examine the effect between different levels of interactions (with a focus on the micro level representation and the degree of auditors’ religiosity, i.e. religious commitment) on the degree of auditors’ independence (in different situations at auditors’ moral development). The main objective of the paper is to determine the interactive effect between religiosity and moral development on the degree of auditor independence. This main objective is to be achieved through three sub-objectives. First is to test whether there is a main effect of moral development on the degree of auditor independence under different economic conditions of clients. Second is to test, whether there is a substantial effect of auditors’ degree of religiosity on the degree of auditor independence, and the interactive effect between religiosity and moral development on auditor independence at different economic conditions of clients.

This statistical experimental research was conducted using a questionnaire at a sample of 190 auditors working in Egypt. This research uses the mixed factorial ANOVA technique to determine the interactional effects of the previously listed independent variables on the degree of auditor independence assessed by his/her likelihood to accept client’s materially misstated reported information using eight (2x2x2) scenarios. The findings of the paper demonstrate that religiosity can affect the degree of auditor independence only at clients’ weak economic conditions, and the same applies to morality as well. There is no evidence that there is an interactive effect between the religiosity and moral development that affect the degree of auditors’ independence. The originality of this research rests being the first experimental designed research, measuring the degree of auditor independence, in Egypt rather than the classical perceptional assessment approach. Second, it is the first study to test the interactive effect between religious orientation/commitment rather than religious affiliation and morality on the degree of auditor independence.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Moral Development, Religiosity, Experimental Split-Plot Design, Repeated Measures, Egypt

JEL Classification: M42, O55, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Abdalla, Diana Mostafa and Ehab, K. A. Mohamed and Hussain, Mostaq M., The Effect of Religiosity & Morality Interaction on the Degree of Auditor Independence: The Case of Egypt (January 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,879
RANK
274,135
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies