Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GAAP as Ineffective Legal Defense of Financial Reporting: Implications for Truthfulness, Auditability, and the IASB's Proposed 2015 Conceptual Framework

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

62 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2017 Last revised: 3 Apr 2017

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Russell Craig

University of Portsmouth

Joel Amernic

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: January 13, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyzes the accounting reasoning of two expert accounting witnesses at the 2006 trial of Enron executives who testified that the financial reporting of Enron conformed fully with US generally accepted accounting principles [GAAP]. We analyze the experts’ evidence using argumentation theory to highlight important issues in the reasoning process underlying financial reporting as support for our critique of the IASB’s proposed 2015 Conceptual Framework. We make two recommendations. First, that a CF should be allowed to override any detailed standard whenever that standard results in untruthful/unethical reporting. This effectively means that the CF should be installed at the top of any GAAP hierarchy as the dominant item guiding standard setting and professional practice. Second, that the concept of ‘faithful representation’ should invoke the concept of ‘verifiably acceptable levels of accounting risk’ in order to incorporate the notion of truthfulness of forecasts in accounting estimates.

Keywords: Keywords: Accounting Risk, Argument, Auditability Conceptual Framework, Enron, Expert Witness, Fair Presentation, GAAP, Principles, Rules

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally and Craig, Russell and Amernic, Joel, GAAP as Ineffective Legal Defense of Financial Reporting: Implications for Truthfulness, Auditability, and the IASB's Proposed 2015 Conceptual Framework (January 13, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,753
RANK
301,137
2 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies