Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconceptualizing Audit Production: the Importance of Capital Investments and Joint Fixed Costs

51 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017 Last revised: 29 Jul 2021

Tracy Gu

The University of Hong Kong, HKU Business School

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Michael T. Stein

Old Dominion University

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

We reformulate audit production by incorporating the role of capital investments that affect the audits of multiple clients. Given such investments and their associated joint fixed costs, the investment and audit production decisions must be analyzed over a client portfolio. Our analyses are relevant both to researchers and practitioners since the Big 4 firms are currently making large investments in information technologies that could transform audit practice, and have profound implications for the structure of the industry. We use numerical methods that allow for a wide variety of specifications to derive solutions, and illustrate these solutions graphically. One implication of our research is that audit quality within a portfolio can be expected to vary systematically with the characteristics of clients in the portfolio. Therefore, the audit quality difference between Big 4 and non-Big 4 firms likely reflects an average upward shift in the array of audit quality within the portfolios of these two classes of firms, associated with a strong clientele effect and a weaker audit firm effect. Another implication is that large capital investments will tend to drive the auditing industry toward a natural monopoly equilibrium. To support the relevance of our analyses, we test several hypotheses concerning the relations between audit quality and the characteristics of auditors’ client portfolios and, using discretionary accruals, find evidence consistent with these hypotheses. Overall, our research demonstrates the importance of conceptualizing audit production as involving both labor and capital investments – not simply labor, as is the case with most existing auditing literature.



Keywords: Audit Services, Client Portfolios, Production, Investments, Discretionary Common Fixed Costs

JEL Classification: A10, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Tracy (Ti) and Simunic, Dan A. and Stein, Michael T., Reconceptualizing Audit Production: the Importance of Capital Investments and Joint Fixed Costs (January 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2900389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
647
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,019
RANK
93,694
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies