Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation on Audit Fees: Evidence from Iran

Posted: 19 Jan 2017

Masoud Azizkhani

Independent

Reza Daghani

Tarbiat Modares University; Tarbiat Modares University

Mojgan Ahmadian

Independent

Date Written: Dec 16, 2016

Abstract

A mandatory audit firm's rotation policy has been adopted in many counties, including Iran, as a mechanism to improve auditor independence and in turn, audit quality. Proponents of this policy claim that its results are increased clients’ audit costs. Using data from firms listed in Tehran Stock Exchange where the mandatory audit firm rotation was required from 2007, this study provides empirical evidence of the economic impact of this policy initiative on audit fees. We examine the impact of both voluntary and mandatory audit firm switch on audit fees for a sample of firms listed on TSE that covers 2006 to 2013. We find no relation between mandatory audit firm rotation and audit fee. Our results suggest that the mandatory audit firm rotation does no impact on audit costs. Other results also show that there is a positive association between voluntary audit firm rotation and audit fees.

Keywords: Initial Audit Engagement, Audit Fee, Mandatory Audit Rotation Policy, Voluntary Audit Firm Rotatition

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Azizkhani, Masoud and Daghani, Reza and Daghani, Reza and Ahmadian, Mojgan, The Impact of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation on Audit Fees: Evidence from Iran (Dec 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900495
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies