Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint-Audit, Political Connections and Cost of Debt Capital

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Khamis Al-Yahyaee

Sultan Qaboos University; Economic Research Forum

Baban Eulaiwi

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 19, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the association between joint audit and cost of debt for a sample of non-financial, publicly listed firms from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. Although the conventional wisdom suggests that “two heads are better than one”, empirical evidence on the beneficial impact of joint audit has not been convincingly documented. We attempt to shed further insights into this debate, using data from the GCC countries. We document a significantly negative effect of joint audit on cost of debt in the GCC countries. This effect is more pronounced in cases where at least one of the joint audit firms is a Big 4 auditor. We then investigate whether political connections with royal families moderate the association between joint audit and cost of debt. Our results suggest that the beneficial effects of joint audits, in terms of a lower cost of debt, are greater in firms with such political connections.

Keywords: Gulf Cooperation Council, Joint Audit, Cost of Debt, Royal Family, Big 4 auditor

JEL Classification: G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Habib, Ahsan and Al-Yahyaee, Khamis and Eulaiwi, Baban, Joint-Audit, Political Connections and Cost of Debt Capital (January 19, 2017). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901902
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,788
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies