Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Influence, Transition Management, and the Demand for Carbon Auditing: The Chinese Experience

42 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Qingliang Tang

School of Business, Western Sydney University

Date Written: January 25, 2017

Abstract

The primary objective of this study is to investigate factors associated with the increase in demand for carbon auditing in China. Based on an analysis of publically available carbon-related information and data, this paper documents the large scale of carbon auditing occurring in the public sector during the period from 2009 to 2013. This paper finds that the creation of carbon institutions and the significant increase in governmental green funding are the main reasons for the emergence of carbon auditing in this period. The change in models of economic development attempting to balance GDP growth and ecosystem protection, plus institutional reform has led carbon auditing from rhetoric to practice. In addition, we show that carbon auditing serves as a tool for the management of transitions and the governance of sustainable socio-technical and organizational innovation and transformation.

Keywords: carbon auditing, climate change, China, institutional influence, transition management

JEL Classification: M42, H83

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Qingliang, Institutional Influence, Transition Management, and the Demand for Carbon Auditing: The Chinese Experience (January 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2905706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2905706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,488
RANK
502,214
2 Citations
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Politics & Energy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies