Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Workload Compression on Audit Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2012

Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Gary F. Peters

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Date Written: Novemeber 2012

Abstract

This study investigates whether workload pressures, as proxied by the audit busy season (i.e., December fiscal year-end date) and auditor workload compression (i.e., relative concentration of companies with the same fiscal year-end date in an auditor's client portfolio), affect audit quality. Using a sample of 8,384 firm-year observations during the period 2006–2009, we find that busy season companies exhibit greater magnitudes of abnormal accruals and are more likely to meet or beat certain earnings benchmarks. Additional tests show that these associations are enhanced by the degree of auditor workload compression. Prior experimental and survey research indicates that workload pressures lead to dysfunctional behaviors and lower audit quality among individual auditors. Our archival findings suggest that these pressures can transcend the quality control mechanisms of a firm, affecting quality at the audit engagement level.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Workload Compression, Busy Season, Abnormal Accruals, Earnings Benchmarks

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Dennis M. and Peters, Gary F., The Effect of Workload Compression on Audit Quality (Novemeber 2012). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906513
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,971
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies