Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Workload Compression and Busy Season Portfolio Changes – U.S. Evidence

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 10(1), p. 91-108, 2014

Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Marshall K. Pitman

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of auditor workload compression on the likelihood of changes to the busy season client portfolio of an audit firm. We find evidence of a positive association between workload compression and the likelihood of changes to the constituents of the busy season client portfolio of a local office. We also find evidence of a positive association between auditor-client misalignment and the likelihood of such changes. The results for our auditor risk proxies are consistent with prior studies, in support that auditors with greater levels of risk in their portfolios are more likely to engage in busy season client turnover. By using alternative research methods and considering previously overlooked variables, this study sheds new light on the factors influencing the portfolio management decisions of auditors.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Auditor Switch, Big-N Firms, Busy Season, Client Portfolio Management, December Year-End, Earnings Management, Workload Compression

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Dennis M. and Pitman, Marshall K., Auditor Workload Compression and Busy Season Portfolio Changes – U.S. Evidence (2014). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 10(1), p. 91-108, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906514
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
946
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies