Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Audit Market in the U.S. Healthcare Sector

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting, and Financial Management, 24(4): 639-659, 2012

Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Xiaoli Yuan

Elizabeth City State University

Dana A. Forgione

University of Texas at San Antonio - College of Business

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to analyze the market for audit services for publicly traded companies operating in the US for-profit (FP) healthcare sector. Complex national and local healthcare laws and regulations suggest the importance of assessing fee effects of joint national-level and city specific expertise among auditors. Using cross-sectional OLS regression analysis, we find that joint expertise significantly affects audit pricing in the healthcare sector. We find a fee premium of 33.6 percent on engagements where auditors are both national and city-specific specialists. We also find that Big-4 auditor reputation is significantly priced in addition to joint auditor expertise, and a significant positive association exists between audit and non-audit service fees — indicating the presence of knowledge spillover effects among healthcare company auditors.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Big-4 Firms, Healthcare, Industry Expertise, Knowledge Spillover

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Xiaoli and Forgione, Dana A. and Lopez, Dennis M., An Empirical Investigation of the Audit Market in the U.S. Healthcare Sector (2012). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting, and Financial Management, 24(4): 639-659, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906512
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies