Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do going concern opinions provide incremental information to predict corporate defaults?

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2017 Last revised: 7 May 2020

Elizabeth F. Gutierrez

Universidad de Chile

Jake Krupa

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: November 26, 2019

Abstract

Investors, regulators, and academics question the usefulness of going concern opinions (GCOs). We assess whether GCOs provide incremental information, relative to other predictors of corporate default. Our measure of incremental information is the additional predictive power that GCOs give to a default model. Using data from 1996 to 2015, initially we find no difference in predictive power between GCOs alone and a default model that includes financial ratios. However, there is an imperfect overlap between GCOs and other predictors. We show that GCOs increase the predictive power of several models that include ratios, market variables, probability of default estimates, and credit ratings. Using a model that includes ratios and market variables, GCOs increase the number of predicted defaults by 4.4 percent, without increasing Type II errors. Our findings suggest that GCOs summarize a complex set of conditions not captured by other predictors of default.

Keywords: going concern opinions; predictive accuracy; Type I and II errors; audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Elizabeth F. and Krupa, Jake and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Vulcheva, Maria, Do going concern opinions provide incremental information to predict corporate defaults? (November 26, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2910604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2910604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Akers , M Maher , D Giacomino
Going-concern opinions: Broadening the expectations gap
The CPA Journal , volume 73 , p. 38 - 42 Posted: 2003-10
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman
Accounting implications of failure prediction models
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 19 Posted: 1982
E I Altman , T P Mcgough
Evaluation of a company as a going concern
Journal of Accountancy , volume 138 , issue 6 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
138,716
4 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies