Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review and Identification of Aspects that Contribute Towards Creation of Audit Expectation Gap, a Step Towards Narrowing this Gap

Developing Countries Studies, Vol.5, No.11, 2015

5 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2017

Furqan Ali

Bilkent University, Department of Management, Students

Muhammad Aamir

Comsats University Islamabad

Sana Arz Bhutto

Sindh Madressatul Islam University

Muhammad Mubeen

IQRA University

Date Written: July 31, 2015

Abstract

Bridging of something requires a gap, and Audit expectation gap still exists since the time it was identified in 1970s, and to cover a gap requires identification of areas which needs to be covered, specially the areas which are the reason of creation of this gap. This paper attempts to expand the literature by identifying the factors which result in creation of this gap through a comprehensive review of literature, specially focusing the key countries in which studies are made regarding audit expectation gap as well as to highlight the groups among which the audit expectation gap exists, so that all necessary aspects should be taken into necessary consideration, and necessary attempts should be made to cover it. It is revealed that audit expectation gap exists due to difference of opinions about the factors like auditors’ role with respect to company and financial statements, audit knowledge, auditor’s attitude towards their profession, audit process, auditors’ independence, fraud detection, importance of auditing, preparation of financial statements, performance of company, parties to whom auditors are responsible, prohibitions and regulations of audit firm, reliability of financial reports and usefulness of financial statements among auditors, accountants, bankers, brokers, creditors, directors, educators, government, investors, journalists, jurors, shareholder, students and government. Various policy implications are also discussed herewith.

Keywords: fraud, auditors, accountants, auditors’ responsibilities, expectations

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Furqan and Aamir, Muhammad and Arz Bhutto, Sana and Mubeen, Muhammad, A Review and Identification of Aspects that Contribute Towards Creation of Audit Expectation Gap, a Step Towards Narrowing this Gap (July 31, 2015). Developing Countries Studies, Vol.5, No.11, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2910486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
357,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies