Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections, Related Party Transactions, and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Indonesia

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Feb 2017

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Abdul Muhammadi

Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Indonesia

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Date Written: February 3, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates how political connections in concert with related party transactions (RPTs) determine auditor choice in Indonesia. Our study is motivated by conflicting findings in the literature on whether politically connected firms appoint reputable auditors (Big 4 auditors). On one hand, politically connected firms are less likely to appoint Big 4 auditors if they wish to cover up RPT-related tunneling activities by providing financial statements that fail to reflect their true economic performance. On the other hand, politically connected insiders who refrain from self-dealing would prefer higher-quality financial reporting and, hence, appoint Big 4 auditors. Using data from Indonesia, we find support for the former. By documenting the role of RPTs as a motivating factor for politically connected firms to choose non-Big 4 auditors, we enrich the political connection and auditor choice literature.

Keywords: Political connections; RPTs, Indonesia, auditor choice

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Muhammadi, Abdul and Jiang, Haiyan, Political Connections, Related Party Transactions, and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Indonesia (February 3, 2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2911375
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies