Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Statement Audits on Non-Income-Increasing Misreporting: Evidence from Restatements

52 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2017 Last revised: 30 Sep 2018

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: September 22, 2018

Abstract

Extant evidence implies that managers rely on a variety of non-income-increasing techniques to manipulate earnings. However, prior research finds that the auditor is more likely to discipline firms against practicing income-increasing (II) earnings management due to its higher litigation and reputation risk, although it remains silent on whether the auditor also constrains non-income-increasing (NII) misreporting. Exploring the nature of NII misstatements, we first find that a significant portion of NII misstatements could have valuation implications. In analyzing the role that financial statement audits play in preventing NII misstatements, we find that the auditor exerting more effort reduces the likelihood of II misstatements, but has no perceptible impact on the likelihood of NII misstatements. Annual audits significantly reduce the probability that accounting mistakes are carried from quarterly reports to annual reports for II misstatements, but have minimal economic impact on NII misstatements. The lower audit efficacy over NII misstatements is more pronounced for those that do not impact net income. Further, we find that the asymmetric audit quality for II and NII misstatements is attributable to lower likelihood of detection of NII misstatements along with the lower likelihood of correction of detected NII misstatements as shown in prior research. Our research sheds lights on whether financial statement audits are effective at constraining NII misstatements, which is an important issue given that NII misstatements have become the most prevalent type of financial misreporting in recent years.

Keywords: Financial Report Misstatements; Audit Quality; Litigation and Reputation Costs; Investor Reactions to Restatements

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhao, Yuping, The Impact of Financial Statement Audits on Non-Income-Increasing Misreporting: Evidence from Restatements (September 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2912478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Lauren M. Cunningham , Linda A. Myers , Justin Short
Do CFO Outside Directorships Benefit or Harm Home Firm Financial Reporting Quality?
Accounting Horizons (2024) 38 (2): 101–118, · 38 Pages · Posted: 18 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 21 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 510
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaotao Kelvin Liu , Biyu Wu
Do IPO Firms Misclassify Expenses? Implications for IPO Price Formation and Post-IPO Stock Performance
Management Science, Forthcoming, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3573564, · 64 Pages · Posted: 11 May 2020 · Last revised: 23 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 287
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,407
RANK
102,992
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies