Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of IFRS: Implication of Event after Reporting Period on Auditors’ Reports

27 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2017

Prof. Godwin Emmanuel Oyedokun

Lead City University Ibadan Nigeria ; OGE Professional Services Ltd; Nasarawa State University, Keffi

Date Written: December 21, 2015

Abstract

Adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has come to stay in Nigeria as all Public Listed Entities and Significant Public Interest Entities are by now expected to be with full compliance of the relevant provisions if the standard. This paper examined the adoption of IFRS in Nigeria and the implication of the International Accounting Standard (IAS) 10- event after reporting period on auditors’ reports. This paper discusses the adjusted and non-adjusted transactions as it affect the financial statement already prepared but still within approving period though after reporting period (fiscal year). Meta-analysis was adopted by reviewing the available literature in the field of this study. It was discovered that some adjusting events do poses reconciliation issues to the eventual finalisation of the financial statement and non-adjusting events in the same vein adds to the responsibilities of auditors in ensuring that such are adequately disclosed.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS, Reporting Period, Financial Statements, Auditors’ reports

JEL Classification: M41, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Oyedokun, Godwin Emmanuel, Adoption of IFRS: Implication of Event after Reporting Period on Auditors’ Reports (December 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2912245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Such as the; the provision in the Company and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 1990, the Investment and Securities Act (ISA) 2007, Bank and other Financial Institution Act (BOFIA) Posted: 1991
Constantly keeping up with the pronouncements published by the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) by Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria
Auditors should strive at ensuring that the quality of audited financial statement is improved upon with the aim of this having a resultant effect on public confidence
Auditors should also pay attention to requirements if IFRS with respect to the IAS 10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,971
RANK
336,300
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies