Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Elaboration Likelihood Model: A Meta-Theory for Synthesizing Auditor Judgment and Decision Making Research

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Feb 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2018

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Richard Petty

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Psychology

Date Written: December 22, 2017

Abstract

Critics argue that audit research rarely impacts practice and that challenges associated with synthesizing and interpreting research are contributing factors. We propose that using the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) as a meta-theoretical framework can help in understanding the collective findings within auditor judgment and decision-making (JDM) research. Our goal is to demonstrate the utility of the ELM by interpreting the collective results of two samples of studies on client cooperation and auditors’ moods. Our synthesis of the client cooperation studies suggests that cooperation on a current issue affects auditors’ judgments only when auditors lack motivation to think carefully about a given task. In contrast, a history of client cooperation tends to bias even highly motivated auditors’ judgments. Our synthesis of the mood studies suggests that motivational interventions are necessary, but not sufficient, to mitigate the effects of mood on judgments. Our ELM interpretation of these studies offers a theoretical explanation for seemingly unrelated predictions and findings that can inform future research and practice.

Keywords: auditor judgment and decision making, Elaboration Likelihood Model, literature review, research synthesis

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Nolder, Christine J. and Petty, Richard, The Elaboration Likelihood Model: A Meta-Theory for Synthesizing Auditor Judgment and Decision Making Research (December 22, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2914387
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies