Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Financial and Non-Financial Measures on the Refinement of the Assessments of Audit Risk: An Empirical Investigation

Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, Vol. 12, No. 7, 365-378, July 2016

14 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2017

Abdelmoneim Awadallah

Cairo University

Haithm Mohamed El Said

Cairo University

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

Identifying and assessing audit risk is a key part of the audit process. Prior research documented that auditors primarily look at financial data, information, and measures when assessing the audit risk for an audit engagement. However, professional standard setters, regulators, and academic researchers have discussed the potential for non-financial data, information, and measures to provide a powerful and independent benchmark for evaluating the validity of the numbers of financial statements of an audit client. A field study was conducted in Egypt during the years 2013 and 2014 to explore how auditors perceive and assess audit risk for an audit engagement in the period following the Egyptian revolution of January 25, 2011. The results of the field study indicated that auditors appear not to give sufficient attention to non-financial data, information, and measures when assessing the audit risk during an audit engagement. Auditors seem to rely on financial data, information, and measures when assessing the audit risk of an audit engagement. Furthermore, auditors do not seem to consider the inconsistencies between financial and non-financial data, information, and measures of an audit client as an indicator of the existence of fraud or material misstatements in the financial statements of an audit client.

Keywords: Non-Financial Measures, Financial Measures, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Awadallah, Abdelmoneim and El Said, Haithm Mohamed, Implications of Financial and Non-Financial Measures on the Refinement of the Assessments of Audit Risk: An Empirical Investigation (July 1, 2016). Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, Vol. 12, No. 7, 365-378, July 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 47 Posted: 1983
Analytical procedures. Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 56 Posted: 1988
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 99 Posted: 2002
B K Behn , R A Riley
Using nonfinancial information to predict financial performance: The case of the U.S. airline industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
432,122
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies