Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Profession Development and Bank Loan Pricing

55 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2017

Wenxia Ge

University of Ottawa

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Byron Y. Song

Hong Kong Baptist University

Gaoguang (Stephen) Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law; Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU); Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: February 15, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the relation between country-level audit profession development and bank loan pricing around the world. Using a sample of bank loan contracts from 36 countries during 2002–2010, we find that stronger audit profession development is associated with lower loan spreads, and such effect is observed for Big 4 clients and firms in countries with strong rule of law. Further analysis suggests that creditors view auditor litigation environment as the most relevant aspect of audit profession development in their lending decisions. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity tests.

Keywords: Audit profession development; Bank loan; Legal enforcement; Accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: F34, K20, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Wenxia and Kang, Tony and Song, Byron Y. and Zhou, Gaoguang (Stephen), Audit Profession Development and Bank Loan Pricing (February 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2917157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2917157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K H Bae , V K Goyal
Creditor rights, enforcement, and bank loans
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors of properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
610,038
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies