Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Private Companies: What Do We Know?

38 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2017 Last revised: 1 Mar 2017

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Caren Schelleman

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting & Information Management, MARC (Maastricht Accounting, Auditing & Information Management Research Center)

Date Written: January 16, 2017

Abstract

What is the need for and value of private company audits? This is an important question since countries differ as to whether they have audit requirements for private companies, even when they have financial reporting requirements for such firms. There are also disagreements as to whether audit requirements should be the same for all companies or differentiated across companies. Views also differ as to how far an audit is simply a burden or whether it produces benefits that outweigh its costs. The purpose of this article is to provide an overview of insights from the literature on what we currently know about the costs and benefits of auditing private company accounts. Our main conclusions are the following. First, there is much heterogeneity in reasons driving audit demand in private companies and the value derived from the audit. Second, research provides support for improved financial reporting quality due to, and real economic benefits from, private company audits. Third, the cost-benefit analysis for private company audits is firm-specific and mandating the audit does not seem to be cost-effective and thus economically optimal for all private companies. Alternative services may better meet the needs of especially smaller private companies. Furthermore, mandating the audit is not necessarily an optimal solution since private companies with low demand for a high-quality audit are able to find an auditor that meets their requirements even under a mandatory regime. Hence, having a mandatory audit in place is no guarantee for high-quality audits and this seems most salient for private companies where auditors may be more prone to independence issues. We conclude by providing a number of directions for future research.

Keywords: Audit, private companies, demand, supply, cost benefit analysis, regulation

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Vanstraelen, Ann and Schelleman, Caren, Auditing Private Companies: What Do We Know? (January 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2918499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2918499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,426
RANK
129,076
6 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies