Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls Associated with Poor M&A Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairment

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 37(4), 49-74.

Posted: 21 Feb 2017 Last revised: 5 Jan 2022

Dennis Caplan

University at Albany (SUNY)

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Alfred Z. Liu

Louisiana Tech University - College of Business

Date Written: February 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of the quality of a firm’s internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) on the quality of corporate M&A decisions. We use material weaknesses in internal control (ICMWs) from SOX 404 audits as a proxy for the quality of a firm’s ICFR, and use future goodwill impairment to proxy for the quality of managers’ M&A decisions. We find that goodwill recognized from acquisitions in years concurrent with ICMW has a greater rate of impairment in subsequent years than goodwill recognized from acquisitions in years without ICMW, thereby establishing a link between ICMW and goodwill impairment. We further show that disclosure and remediation of ICMWs appear to improve valuations of subsequent acquisitions. Our study contributes to the literature on internal controls by documenting unanticipated benefits of SOX 404 audits on managerial performance, and to the goodwill literature by identifying ICMW as a determinant of goodwill impairment.

Keywords: internal control, material weaknesses, SOX 404, goodwill impairment, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G38

Suggested Citation:

Caplan, Dennis and Dutta, Saurav K. and Liu, Alfred, Are Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls Associated with Poor M&A Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairment (February 15, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 37(4), 49-74., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2919123
 Not Available for Download
0 References
6 Citations
Amir Amel-Zadeh , Martin Glaum , Thorsten Sellhorn
Empirical Goodwill Research: Insights, Issues, and Implications for Standard Setting and Future Research
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 61, Forthcoming in European Accounting Review · 81 Pages · Posted: 7 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 455
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Masoud Azizkhani , Lucy Huajing Chen , Heibatollah Sami
Acquirers’ Use of Fairness Opinions and Subsequent Goodwill Impairments
56 Pages · Posted: 10 Nov 2021 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 216
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ting Chen , Xiaotao Kelvin Liu , Chi Wan , Yakun Wang
Customer Satisfaction and Internal Control
Journal of Management Accounting Research · 55 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 18 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 362
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
hongwen han , Jiali Tang , Qingquan Tang
The Role of Large Shareholders in Goodwill Impairment Decisions – Evidence from China
EMEMAR-D-23-00253 · 45 Pages · Posted: 4 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies