Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Brand Name, Industry Specialisation, and Earnings Management: Evidence from Taiwanese Companies

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 3(2): 194-219, 2006

Posted: 3 Mar 2017

Ken Y. Chen

National Taiwan University; National Taiwan University

Shan-Ying Wu

Kun Shan University of Technology

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between auditor brand name, industry specialization, and earnings management as measured by discretionary accruals for a sample of listed companies in Taiwan, where the litigation risk against auditors is much less than the risk in the USA. We find that the use of Big 5 auditors is related to less earnings management in Taiwan. We also find that industry specialist auditors are related to less income increasing earnings management, which, to our knowledge, has not been demonstrated by any audit quality and earnings management studies in Taiwan.

Keywords: Auditor Brand Name, Industry Specialization, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ken Y. and Wu, Shan-Ying and Zhou, Jian, Auditor Brand Name, Industry Specialisation, and Earnings Management: Evidence from Taiwanese Companies (2006). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 3(2): 194-219, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926285
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies