Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and Earnings Management for Taiwan IPO Firms

2005. Managerial Auditing Journal V20 (1): 86-104

Posted: 3 Mar 2017

Ken Y. Chen

National Taiwan University; National Taiwan University

Kuen-Lin Lin

Independent

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

Purpose – This paper investigates the relationship between audit quality (as measured by auditor size and industry specialization) and earnings management (as measured by unexpected accruals) for Taiwan IPO firms.

Design/methodology/approach – First uses unexpected accruals in the modified Jones model to measure earnings management in the IPO process. Then uses auditor type (big five versus non-big five) and industry specialist to measure audit quality. The hypothesis predicts that Taiwanese firms with higher quality auditors engage less in earnings management in the IPO process. The sample consists of 367 new issues between 1999 and 2002 from the Taiwan Economic Journal database.

Findings – It is found that big five auditors are related to less earnings management in the IPO year in Taiwan. This shows that higher quality auditors constrain earnings management for Taiwan IPO firms.

Research limitations/implications – The finding shows that high quality auditors constrain earnings management and provide more precise information. This is important, given that management has incentive to engage in earnings management in the IPO process to garner greater proceeds and at-issue earnings management is negatively related to post-issue earnings performance and stock returns.

Practical implications – The research might be of interest to investors in IPO firms, given that at-issue unexpected accruals are opportunistic.

Originality/value – The study contributes to the literature in that it shows that audit firm size is an important determinant in earnings management for Taiwan IPO firms.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Earning Management, Taiwan IPO Firms

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ken Y. and Lin, Kuen-Lin and Zhou, Jian, Audit Quality and Earnings Management for Taiwan IPO Firms (2005). 2005. Managerial Auditing Journal V20 (1): 86-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926247
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies