Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofessional Investors’ Reactions to the PCAOB's Proposed Changes to the Standard Audit Report

60 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2017

Brian Todd Carver

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Brad S. Trinkle

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 9, 2017

Abstract

As part of its efforts to improve the informational value of the standard audit report, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) proposed a new auditing standard that would require the auditor to report critical audit matters (CAMs) in the body of the audit report. The proposal met with approval from investor groups, while preparers have suggested the new disclosures could negatively affect the quality of the audit and the informational content of the audit report. This study examines how the proposed standard influences experienced, nonprofessional investors’ perception of the readability of the audit report, their valuation judgments, and their evaluations of management’s credibility. We find that the disclosure of a CAM negatively impacts the readability of the audit report, but does not, either directly or through its effect on readability, incrementally inform investors’ valuation judgments. Instead, investors focused on earnings benchmark performance when making valuation judgements. The disclosure of a CAM does, however, lower investors’ perceptions of management’s credibility when earnings just meet expectations. Our results suggest that the PCAOB’s proposed standard will have a significant, negative effect on the readability of the audit report but only a limited impact on the informational content of the audit report for investors.

Keywords: Critical Audit Matters, Standard Audit Report, Investor’s Perception, Readability, Valuation Judgment

JEL Classification: C99, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Carver, Brian Todd and Trinkle, Brad S., Nonprofessional Investors’ Reactions to the PCAOB's Proposed Changes to the Standard Audit Report (March 9, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2930375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2930375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP). 2008. Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. October 6. Available at
Crossref
The Future of the Accounting Profession Posted: 2003
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1988a. Reports on Audited Financial Statements. SAS No , volume 58
Crossref
Ann G. Backof , Kendall O. Bowlin , Brian Matthew Goodson
The Importance of Clarification of Auditors’ Responsibilities Under the New Audit Reporting Standards
Pages: 45 Posted: 6 Jun 2014 Last revised: 27 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
15 Citations
Tiago Ascenso , Cláudio Pais
Trends and Applications in Information Systems and Technologies
, volume 1368 , p. 452 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Tarek Abdelfattah , Mohamed Elmahgoub , Ahmed A. Elamer
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2020
Crossref
Steven J. Kachelmeier , Dan Rimkus , Jaime J. Schmidt , Kristen Valentine
The Forewarning Effect of Critical Audit Matter Disclosures Involving Measurement Uncertainty
47 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 15 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 3,575
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yan Luo
Determinants and consequence of critical audit matter disclosure: early evidence
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,716
RANK
32,758
15 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies