Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation on Client Importance and Audit Industry Concentration

The Accounting Review 2018 Vol. 93, No. 1

Posted: 16 Mar 2017 Last revised: 22 Jan 2018

Christopher Bleibtreu

BI Norwegian Business School

Ulrike Stefani

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Date Written: June 8, 2015

Abstract

Recently, a system of audit firm rotation has been implemented for the audits of listed companies conducted in the EU. In the US, in contrast, the regulator decided against such rotation. Whereas proponents argue that rotation would strengthen independence and decrease audit market concentration, opponents stress the importance of auditors’ learning effects, which would be eliminated by a change in auditors.

In extending the market matching model of Salop (1979), we provide an analysis that integrates these contradictory views. We assume that both auditors’ industry expertise and their experience in auditing a client decrease audit costs. We investigate the bidding strategies applied to re-acquire clients that were lost due to rotation, auditors’ profit contributions, the equilibrium number of auditors (i.e., audit market concentration), and the economic importance of specific clients.

Our findings indicate that the regulators’ goals of simultaneously decreasing client importance and audit market concentration are in direct conflict, and therefore the rotation system might have unintended consequences. Our model thus suggests how different institutional parameters give rise to economic forces that can support diverging decisions regarding the implementation of MAR.

Keywords: audit market structure, client importance, concentration, mandatory audit firm rotation, market matching model

JEL Classification: D43, L11, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bleibtreu, Christopher and Stefani, Ulrike, The Effects of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation on Client Importance and Audit Industry Concentration (June 8, 2015). The Accounting Review 2018 Vol. 93, No. 1 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932783
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies