Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-CPAs and Office Audit Quality

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017 Last revised: 24 Feb 2020

Matthew Sherwood

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Albert Nagy

John Carroll University - Boler School of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 12, 2020

Abstract

During the time surrounding the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Big 4 firms either spun-off or downsized their consulting practices. However, in recent years, consulting service lines of the large accounting firms have seen a dramatic resurgence and growth. Regulators have taken notice and expressed concern over this renewed focus on consulting. The accounting firms claim that such services enhance audit quality, mainly due to the prominent role of non-accounting specialists in today’s external audit function. This study examines whether the availability of non-CPAs in U.S. Big 4 firm offices is associated with audit quality. We find that greater access to non-CPAs in the office is associated with higher audit quality and conclude that office audit quality is not just a function of audit-specific human resources but also the availability of non-CPAs to support audit engagement teams.

Keywords: audit quality, consulting focus, non-audit services, audit firm offices, use of specialists, audit pricing

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Sherwood, Matthew and Nagy, Albert and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Non-CPAs and Office Audit Quality (February 12, 2020). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2933106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2933106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Albert Nagy , Matthew Sherwood , Aleksandra Zimmerman
CPAs and Office Audit Quality
47 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2017 · Last revised: 7 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 500
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
197,037
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies