Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Overemphasize Contextual Benchmarks? Archival Evidence on Contrast Effects in Auditors’ Assessment of Client Risk

49 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 25 Mar 2017

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

As part of planning and performing financial statement audits, auditors must assess their clients’ risk. Assessed risk permeates the audit process, driving decisions regarding client retention, audit pricing, the extent of audit testing, and the nature of auditors’ written opinions. Although auditors aim to assess each client’s risk independently, prior research suggests that individuals draw on their idiosyncratic experiences and environments for benchmarks against which to contrast the case at hand. These “contrast effects” may skew auditors’ perceptions of risk, particularly if they rely on unrepresentative benchmark firms. I provide archival evidence consistent with this prediction. Using a large sample of public firms, I find that after controlling for clients’ actual risk, auditors more strictly constrain the use of discretionary accruals, are more likely to issue going concern opinions, and charge higher audit fees when clients appear riskier in the context of other clients audited by the same practice office. The reverse is true for clients that appear less risky in the context of other clients audited by the same practice office.

Keywords: Behavioral decision making; audit client risk; contrast effects

Suggested Citation:

Hallman, Nicholas, Do Auditors Overemphasize Contextual Benchmarks? Archival Evidence on Contrast Effects in Auditors’ Assessment of Client Risk (March 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2935098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2935098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Adaval , K B Monroe
Automatic construction and use of contextual information for product and price evaluations
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 572 - 588 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Asay , T Brown , M Nelson , J Wilks
The effects of out-of-regime guidance on auditor judgments about appropriate application of accounting standards
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2016
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
The Accounting , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T T B Bell , W W R Landsman , D D Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
306,268
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies