Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Concern Opinions and Management's Forward Looking Disclosures: Evidence from the MD&A

48 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2017 Last revised: 2 Jun 2018

Maria Enev

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 27, 2018

Abstract

In this study I examine the relationship between the auditor’s going concern opinion and management’s forward-looking disclosures in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section of 10-K filings. The analysis is two-fold and addresses whether the presence of a going concern opinion is associated with (1) the quantity of forward-looking disclosures and (2) the level of equivocation or lack of clarity of forward-looking disclosures. I examine MD&A disclosures from a sample of 2,365 financially distressed companies over the fiscal years 2010-2014 and find that while the absolute number of forward-looking disclosures is lower for companies receiving a going concern opinion, the proportion of forward-looking disclosures in the MD&A is greater in the presence of a going concern opinion. I also find that the forward-looking disclosures use less equivocation, and hence are clearer about future prospects when the company receives a going concern opinion. In addition, I find that forward-looking disclosures are significantly different for first-time versus continuing going concern opinions. In sum, my results suggest generally improved forward-looking disclosures in MD&A when companies receive a going concern opinion from their auditor.

Keywords: MD&A forward-looking disclosures, going concern, audit opinion, equivocation

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Enev, Maria, Going Concern Opinions and Management's Forward Looking Disclosures: Evidence from the MD&A (May 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2938703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E Altman
Accounting implications of failure prediction models
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 21 Posted: 1982
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: A meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
RANK
135,530
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies