Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Tenure, Information Asymmetry and Earnings Quality

54 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2017

Sidney Leung

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Lingmin Xie

Shenzhen University - College of Economics

Date Written: March 10, 2017

Abstract

We confirm the results of prior studies that auditor tenure improves earnings quality on average. We extend their findings to show that the improvement in earnings quality resulting from longer auditor tenure is greater for firms with higher information asymmetry, after controlling for auditor’s industry specialization. We argue that audits of client firms with higher information asymmetry demand more client specific knowledge that cannot be gleaned from industry or general experience. Longer tenure helps auditors acquire such knowledge and therefore, the benefit of longer audit tenure is greater in firms with greater information asymmetry. We use bid-ask spread, return volatility, intensity of R&D expenditure and a composite distance measure to measure information asymmetry. Our results imply that frequent auditor changes are costlier for firms with higher information asymmetry. At the policy level, our results imply that mandatory auditor rotation is more (less) costly for firms with high (low) information asymmetry.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Auditor Rotation, Client-Specific Knowledge, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Leung, Sidney and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Xie, Lingmin, Auditor Tenure, Information Asymmetry and Earnings Quality (March 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2941949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2941949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
J. Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Agarwal
Socio-cultural distance and the choice of joint ventures: a contingency perspective
J. Int. Mark , volume 2 , p. 63 - 80 Posted: 1994
Crossref
W Alissa , V Capkun , T Jeanjean , N Suca
An empirical investigation of the impact of audit and auditor characteristics on auditor performance. Accounting
Organ. Soc , volume 39 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A R Almutairi , K A Dunn , T Skantz
Auditor tenure, auditor specialization, and information asymmetry
Manag. Audit. J , volume 24 , p. 600 - 623 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
599
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,513
RANK
103,435
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies