Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Effects of Population Aging

NBER Working Paper No. w8640

40 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2001 Last revised: 12 Aug 2022

Axel H. Börsch-Supan

Max Planck Society for the Advancement of the Sciences - Munich Center for the Economics of Aging (MEA)

Date Written: December 2001

Abstract

This paper analyzes effects of population aging on the labor market and determines their broad implications for public policy. It takes Germany as an example, but it equally applies to the other large economies in Continental Europe. The paper argues that, alongside the amply discussed, demographically-determined increase in the contribution and tax burden which is responsible for the ever widening gap between gross and disposable earnings, two other important areas of policy deserve greater attention. First, it is unlikely that the decline in the relative size of the economically active population will be offset by higher capital intensity. Labor productivity will need to increase over and above this mechanism in order to compensate for the impact of population aging on domestic production. Hence, we will need more education and training to speed up human capital formation. Second, the shift in the age structure will also change the structure of demand for goods. This, in turn, will have large effects on the pattern of employment across different sectors of the economy and will require a substantial increase in labor mobility in order to accommodate these structural changes.

Suggested Citation:

Börsch-Supan, Axel H., Labor Market Effects of Population Aging (December 2001). NBER Working Paper No. w8640, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=294180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A J Auerbach , L J Kotlikoff
Dynamic Fiscal Policy Posted: 1987
Barth , H Philip , Mirvis
Building the Competitive Workforce: Investing in Human Capital for Corporate Success
Corporations and the Aging Workforce Posted: 1993
H Birg , A Börsch-Supan
Für eine neue Aufgabenteilung zwischen gesetzlicher and privater Altersversorgung Posted: 1999
T Boeri , A Börsch-Supan , G Tabellini
Would you like to shrink or expand the welfare state? The opinions of European Citizens Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,616
RANK
347,495
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Employee Retirement and a Firm's Pension Plan

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff and David A. Wise

Aging and International Capital Flows

By Axel H. Börsch-supan, Alexander Ludwig, ...

Long-Term Labour Force Projections for the 25 EU Member States: A Set of Data for Assessing the Economic Impact of Ageing

By Giuseppe Carone

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies