Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Is the Averaging Effect Present in Auditor Judgments?

38 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2017 Last revised: 28 Feb 2019

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2019

Abstract

Auditing standards task auditors with collecting sufficient appropriate evidence to form audit judgments. Yet cognitive psychology documents a robust finding in which people evaluate a bundle of relevant, directionally consistent evidence as though averaging the strength of the components. In consequence, a bundle of evidence may be viewed as weaker evidence than the bundle’s strongest evidence item alone. We experimentally examine whether this averaging effect occurs in an audit context, and we test a potential moderator. In three independent mini-cases, we ask auditor participants to make judgments about going concern, internal controls, and fraud risk. We present auditors with unfavorable audit evidence relevant to each judgment, manipulating whether we present a single strong evidence item or bundle it with a weaker evidence item. We also manipulate the auditor’s initial impression of the client’s state. We find that experienced auditors succumb to the averaging effect, making more strongly unfavorable judgments in response to the single evidence item than the bundle, and that this bias is reduced when the observed evidence is inconsistent with the auditor’s initial impression. We interpret our results as consistent with the dual-processing theory of cognition.

Keywords: Audit Evidence Integration, Averaging, Audit Judgments

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lambert, Tamara A. and Peytcheva, Marietta, When Is the Averaging Effect Present in Auditor Judgments? (February 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2947326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2947326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
N H Anderson
Averaging versus adding as a stimulus-combination rule in impression formation
Journal of Experimental Psychology , volume 70 , issue 4 , p. 394 - 400 Posted: 1965
Crossref
R E Anderson
The effect of disconfirmed expectancy on perceived product performance
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 44 Posted: 1973
Crossref
U Anderson , L Koonce
Evaluating the sufficiency of causes in audit analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1998
M Bamber , R Ramsay , R Tubbs
An examination of the descriptive validity of the beliefadjustment model and alternative attitudes to evidence in auditing
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 249 - 268 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Juergen Sidgman , Veena L Brown , Joseph F. Brazel
The Multitasking Audit Environment: The Effect of Alternative Modes of Communication on Team Performance
Journal of Information Systems , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 155 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Anand Krishnan V K , Meera Chalissery
Review of the role of behavioural finance in accounting
12 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 226
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaoxing Li , Joseph F. Brazel , Anna Gold
An Unintended Consequence of Full Population Testing on Auditors' Professional Skepticism
52 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 24 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 179
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
330,157
3 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies