Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technical Inefficiency, Allocative Inefficiency, and Audit Pricing

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2017

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Yi-Ching Kao

Menlo College

Raj Mashruwala

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Susan Sorensen

University of Houston, Clear Lake

Date Written: April 11, 2017

Abstract

The critical global role of audit firms, combined with the scarcity of qualified staff and downward pressure on fees, has increased the importance of understanding efficiency in this industry. This paper examines the technical and allocative inefficiencies of audit firm staffing using data from 165 audit engagements performed by a Big 4 international CPA firm. Prior research has shown that the technical inefficiency of audit engagements leads to lower billing realization rates on audit engagements. We complement and extend this research by examining whether there are inefficiencies in allocating staff for audit engagements in addition to technical inefficiency, and whether each of these inefficiencies leads to lower billing realization rates. We find that there are differences in both technical and allocative inefficiencies across audit engagements, and that both inefficiencies lead to lower billing realization rates after controlling for other characteristics that could affect the realization rates of the audit engagements.

Keywords: Technical Inefficiency, Allocative Inefficiency, Audit Pricing, Big 4, DEA

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsihui and Kao, Yi-Ching and Mashruwala, Raj and Sorensen, Susan, Technical Inefficiency, Allocative Inefficiency, and Audit Pricing (April 11, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2951247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Accountants
Private Companies Practice Section (PCPS) CPA Firm Top Issues Survey Posted: 2013
W Baber , E Brooks , W Ricks
An Empirical Investigation of the Market for Audit Services in the Public Sector
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 305 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R D Banker
Maximum likelihood, consistency and data envelopment analysis: A statistical foundation
Management Science , volume 39 , p. 1265 - 1273 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R D Banker , H Chang
The super-efficiency procedure for outlier identification, not for ranking efficient units
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 175 , p. 1311 - 1320 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Tien-Shih Hsieh , Jeong-Bon Kim , Ray R. Wang , Zhihong Wang
Seeing Is Believing? Executives’ Facial Trustworthiness, Auditor Tenure, and Audit Fees
Forthcoming at Journal of Accounting and Economics. · 58 Pages · Posted: 23 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 663
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brigitte Eierle , Sven Hartlieb , David Hay , Lasse Niemi , Hannu Ojala
External Factors and the Pricing of Audit Services: A Systematic Review of the Archival Literature using a PESTLE Analysis
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming (DOI: https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2019-510) , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 6 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 2,422
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,586
RANK
444,235
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies