Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It Goes Without Saying: The Effects of Intrinsic Motivational Orientation, Leadership Emphasis of Intrinsic Goals, and Audit Issue Ambiguity on Speaking Up

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2017 Last revised: 25 Oct 2018

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Chad A. Proell

University of North Texas- Ryan College of Business -Department of Accounting

Jay Rich

Illinois State University - College of Business

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 9, 2018

Abstract

Regulators require auditors to raise significant audit issues and concerns to the attention of audit engagement leadership and requires leadership to encourage such communication. This paper demonstrates, using an experiment and a survey, that audit team members’ willingness to speak up about such issues is associated with their intrinsic motivational orientation. Based on this result, we test whether audit leadership can leverage this relationship to increase speaking up, particularly when audit issues are more ambiguous, by emphasizing intrinsic goals. Results across three additional experiments indicate that auditors whose leaders emphasize intrinsic goals, whether directly or through tone at the top and firm culture, are more likely to speak up than are other auditors. We also find that auditors are more likely to speak up when an audit issue is less versus more ambiguous. We conclude that leadership can fulfill their obligation to encourage upward communication by emphasizing intrinsic versus extrinsic goals, regardless of the level of ambiguity surrounding the audit issue.

Keywords: Audit Teams, Information Sharing, Leadership, Employee Voice, Experiment, Survey

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Kadous, Kathryn and Proell, Chad A. and Rich, Jay S. and Zhou, Yuepin, It Goes Without Saying: The Effects of Intrinsic Motivational Orientation, Leadership Emphasis of Intrinsic Goals, and Audit Issue Ambiguity on Speaking Up (October 9, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2952107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2952107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
C P Agoglia , J Brazel , R Hatfield , S Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T M Amabile
Motivation and creativity: Motivational orientation on creative writers
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 399 Posted: 1985
Crossref
T M Amabile
Motivational synergy: Towards new conceptualizations of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation in the work place
Human Resource Management Review , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 185 - 201 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,604
RANK
203,526
10 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies