Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Brain Drain in Auditing? The Determinants and Consequences of Auditors' Leaving Public Accounting

59 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2017 Last revised: 7 Jun 2019

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Zili Zhuang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: May 15, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates why auditors leave public accounting and the consequences of auditor departures. We find that audit competency is negatively associated with a departure decision. Specifically, audit partners and managers, as well as auditors generating more audit revenues and providing higher quality audits, have a lower likelihood of departure. However, female, young, non-Big 4 auditors, and those with better educational backgrounds have a higher likelihood of departing public accounting. In terms of consequences, we find that the audit firm is more likely to lose clients whose incumbent auditor departs. Clients that stay with the same firm, however, pay lower audit fees with no drop off of audit quality after their auditor’s departure. In supplementary analyses, we also demonstrate that the determinants and consequences of auditor departures are different from those of auditor turnover. Specifically, while higher audit competency decreases the likelihood of auditor departures, it increases auditor turnover. Our study provides insights that should be of interest to the audit profession, audit firms, and regulators.

Keywords: audit partner; auditor departure; audit firm switch; audit fees; audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Mao, Juan and Qi, Baolei and Zhuang, Zili, Is There a Brain Drain in Auditing? The Determinants and Consequences of Auditors' Leaving Public Accounting (May 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2954582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2954582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
T Bell , M Causholli , W R Knechel
Audit firm tenure, non-audit services, and internal assessments of audit quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Bernardi , D Arnold
An examination of moral development within public accounting by gender, staff level, and firm
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 653 - 668 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S V Brown , W R Knechel
Auditor-client compatibility and audit firm selection
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 725 - 775 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Brundage , M Koziel
Retaining top talent still a requirement for firms: focus on people now to keep turnover costs down when the economy improves
Journal of Accountancy , volume 209 , issue 5 , p. 38 - 44 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
804
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,930
RANK
70,668
2 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies