Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does International Accounting Network Membership Affect Audit Fees and Audit Quality? Evidence from Chinese Small Audit Firms

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 52-3, (Forthcoming)

Posted: 20 Apr 2017

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Qian Xu

China Agriculture University

Date Written: April 18, 2017

Abstract

Regulators suggest that small audit firms should join international accounting networks to reduce their resource constraints in serving large clients and providing high-quality service. Bills, Cunningham, and Myers (BCM, 2016) investigate the issue in the U.S. and find that audit fees and quality are both higher for members of international accounting networks (i.e., member audit firms). We investigate the effects of network membership on audit fees and quality in China, a weak institutional environment. Using data of Chinese listed companies audited by non-Big N audit firms from 2001 to 2010, we find that member audit firms charge 3.9% higher fees than nonmember audit firms, much lower than 30% fee premiums charged by U.S. member audit firms (BCM, 2016). We fail to find consistent evidence that audit quality is higher for member audit firms. Overall, our results demonstrate that China’s weak institutional environment may overwhelm the quality control brought by international accounting networks and it may weaken or even offset the benefits of audit firms’ participation in these networks, resulting in smaller or even no effects of membership on audit fees and quality.

Keywords: Accounting Networks, Small Audit Firms, Weak Institutional Environment, Audit Fees, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Mao, Juan and Qi, Baolei and Xu, Qian, Does International Accounting Network Membership Affect Audit Fees and Audit Quality? Evidence from Chinese Small Audit Firms (April 18, 2017). The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 52-3, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2954663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies