Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Culture, Personnel Characteristics and Dysfunctional Audit Behavior

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 3, July 2016, pp. 34-63

Posted: 20 Apr 2017

Peter J Baldacchino

Independent

Norbert Tabone

University of Malta

Justine Agius

Independent

Frank Bezzina

University of Malta

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper analyzes the incidence and impact of Dysfunctional Audit Behavior (DAB) within audit firms. It investigates the impact of organizational culture and individual audit personnel characteristics on the acceptance of dysfunctional practices among audit staff. A mixed methods approach is employed. A questionnaire is distributed among the audit personnel of 40 audit firms in the European Island-State of Malta. This is complemented by eight semi-structured interviews with audit partners from different firms. The perceived reinforcement of under-reporting of chargeable time, inappropriate behaviors by superiors and the individual’s locus of control are found to be significant predictors of the acceptance of dysfunctional practices. The study also indicates that audit experience leads to a reduction of such behavior and that Big Four auditors are less accepting of dysfunctional practices than those in smaller firms. Furthermore, the organizational culture within audit firms and an individual’s perception of control exhibit significant influence on the acceptance of dysfunctional practices. The study thus seeks to help in enhancing audit quality by raising awareness on the impact of dysfunctional practices and sheds new light on the factors contributing to such behavior, and thus seeks to help by indicating the ways to enhance audit quality.

Suggested Citation:

Baldacchino, Peter J and Tabone, Norbert and Agius, Justine and Bezzina, Frank, Organizational Culture, Personnel Characteristics and Dysfunctional Audit Behavior (2016). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 3, July 2016, pp. 34-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955672
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies