Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Integration of Expert Advice in Cross-Functional Audit Teams: The Influence of Expert Perspective Taking

59 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2017 Last revised: 24 Feb 2020

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Yi-Jing Wu

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 21, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates how communication complexity (i.e., the presentation of technical information) in the expert’s advice can impact auditor integration of evidence. We document that holding constant the information content, readability, and understandability of the expert’s advice, but varying only the degree of its communication complexity in presentation influences auditors’ critical evaluation and integration of the expert’s advice – a key concern for audit regulators worldwide. After establishing that auditors’ processing of evidence is lower when communication complexity is high versus when it is low, we provide evidence that prompting them to take the expert’s perspective improves their critical evaluation and integration of the expert’s advice, given high communication complexity. Thus, this study provides the first evidence that presentation of technical information, separate from auditors’ understanding of it, inhibits their processing of the expert’s evidence but adopting an expert’s perspective even when the users (auditors) are at an expertise disadvantage can enhance judgments and decision-making. Accordingly, these results, consistent with predictions based on communication and perspective-taking theories, have implications for regulators, auditors, and agents interested in enhancing collaboration in cross-functional teams with diverse expertise.

Keywords: Auditor Perspective Taking; Communication Complexity; Cross-Functional Collaboration; Evidence Evaluation; Auditors' Use of Specialist's Work

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Joe, Jennifer R. and Wu, Yi-Jing and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Improving the Integration of Expert Advice in Cross-Functional Audit Teams: The Influence of Expert Perspective Taking (February 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2957840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2957840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
E Altiero , Y J Kang , M Peecher
Motivated Perspective Taking: Why Auditors Asked to Take an Investor's Perspective Assess Negative Adjustments as Less Material. Working paper Posted: 2019
S K Asare , A M Wright
Field Evidence about Auditors' Experiences in Consulting with Forensic Specialists
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure Readability and the Sensitivity of Investors' Valuation Judgments to Outside Information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Auditing Standards Board (ASB). 2019. ASB Meeting Minutes Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
J. Owen Brown , Jonathan H. Grenier , Jonathan S. Pyzoha , Andrew Reffett
The Effects of Specialist Type and Estimate Aggressiveness on Jurors' Judgments of Auditor Negligence
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 47 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Kyrre Kjellevold
Delegating the Monitoring of Fair Value Measurements: A Field Study of Company Specialists and Audit Partners
Posted: 22 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ayla M. Borkus , Hielke D. de Boer , Herman van Brenk , Niels van Nieuw Amerongen
The effects of self‐esteem and perspective‐taking on group auditor's review actions
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 61 Posted: 2022
Crossref
J. Owen Brown , Jonathan H. Grenier , Jonathan S. Pyzoha , Andrew Reffett , Natalie Zielinski
When Does Utilizing Valuation Specialists Reduce Auditors' Litigation Risk?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. P1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,359
RANK
166,710
13 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies