Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Costs and Benefits of Internal Control Audits: Evidence from M&A Transactions

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2017 Last revised: 26 Jul 2018

Todd D. Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

David P. Weber

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 9, 2018

Abstract

To inform the debate on the merits of internal control audits, we examine managers’ decisions to temporarily exempt newly acquired businesses from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We provide evidence that managers are more likely to elect the exemption when expected compliance costs are higher, such as when acquisitions are larger and occur later in the year. We find only modest evidence that managers use the exemption to avoid scrutiny of value-destroying deals. Exemption use, however, is associated with negative post-acquisition outcomes, including lower return-on-assets and higher likelihoods of goodwill impairments and financial statement restatements. These results are consistent with compliance providing benefits by facilitating timely identification and correction of control problems in the newly acquired business. Finally, we document negative abnormal stock returns at the time exemption use is announced and over the subsequent three years, suggesting that investors view exemption use negatively and that their initial price reactions are incomplete.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Sarbanes-Oxley, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G30, G34, K22, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kravet, Todd D. and McVay, Sarah E. and Weber, David P., Costs and Benefits of Internal Control Audits: Evidence from M&A Transactions (July 9, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2958318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2958318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Acito , C Hogan , R Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditorclient relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C Alexander , S Bauguess , G Bernile , Y.-H Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
687
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,555
RANK
86,703
16 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies