Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Consider Clients’ Compliance with Environmental Regulations?

Posted: 3 May 2017 Last revised: 18 Apr 2018

Yue Li

University of Toronto - Joseph Rotman School of Management

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: April 6, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether auditors are sensitive to their clients’ compliance with environmental regulations. Under current auditing standards, auditors’ responsibilities with respect to the detection and reporting of violations of environmental regulations by their clients are limited and quite vague. However, a client’s non-compliance with environmental regulations potentially increases audit risk and audit task complexity. Thus, it is ex ante unclear whether auditors care about clients’ compliance with environmental regulations. Using a longitudinal sample from 2000 to 2012, we find that audit fees are higher for clients with environmental compliance risk. Further analysis indicates that the complexity in corporate environmental regulations has a more direct impact on audit fees than the magnitude of individual environmental risk factors. Our findings is consistent with auditors charging higher fees when auditing clients with environmental compliance issues. However, we do not find evidence that the magnitude of corporate environmental liability affects audit fees directly. This study contributes to both environmental accounting research and the auditing literature concerning the impact of environmental compliance risk on audit task complexity.

Keywords: environmental regulation; compliance; complexity; audit fees

JEL Classification: M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yue and Simunic, Dan A. and Ye, Minlei, Do Auditors Consider Clients’ Compliance with Environmental Regulations? (April 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2961998
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies