Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of International Working Experience of Individual Auditors on Audit Quality: Evidence from China

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 May 2017

Xiaolin Chen

Jiujiang University

Yunhao Dai

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Weiqiang Tan

Education University of Hong Kong; The Education University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 16, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of auditors with international working experience on audit quality in emerging markets. Such auditors are associated with better audit quality, a pattern that is further supported by an examination based on a propensity score matching sample that controls for endogeneity. Chief financial officers with international experience are more conservative in the client company of their auditors with international working experience. Further, reviewer partners with international working experience provide better audit quality in terms of low accruals, less below-the-line items, and less audit reporting aggressiveness, while engagement partners with international working experience require high audit fees. Moreover, financial reports signed by auditors with international working experience are associated with analyst forecast accuracy and dispersion. Our results are robust to different specifications and alternative measures. Overall, this paper highlights the importance of human capital and provides direct evidence on how auditors with international working experience use their knowledge and audit skills in emerging markets.

Keywords: Individual Auditor, Auditor Working Experience, Audit Quality, China

JEL Classification: M49, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaolin and Dai, Yunhao and Kong, Dongmin and Tan, Weiqiang and Tan, Weiqiang, Effect of International Working Experience of Individual Auditors on Audit Quality: Evidence from China (April 16, 2017). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2962520
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies