Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Information Asymmetry to Auditor Choice, Audit Fees, and Going Concern Opinions: Evidence from Exploiting Exogenous Shifts in Analyst Coverage

55 Pages Posted: 13 May 2017 Last revised: 14 May 2017

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

We analyze whether information asymmetry affects three major aspects of the audit process using an instrumental variables research design that exploits exogenous increases in information asymmetry stemming from brokerage house mergers and closures. Consistent with our predictions, we find that a rise in information asymmetry leads to: (i) a higher (lower) probability that firms switch to a higher (lower) quality auditor, implying that information asymmetry stimulates demand for auditing, (ii) higher audit fees, implying that worse information asymmetry is a priced audit risk, and (iii) a higher probability that auditors render a going concern opinion, implying that auditors’ reporting decisions are sensitive to this risk. In another approach to confronting the endogeneity threat that undermines reliable identification in extant research, our core evidence holds in a difference-in-difference framework that involves examining the three auditing outcomes surrounding the brokerage house merger/closure window.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Demand for Auditing, Audit Fees, Going Concern Opinions

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Joshua L. and Hallman, Nicholas and Li, Chan and Pittman, Jeffrey A., The Importance of Information Asymmetry to Auditor Choice, Audit Fees, and Going Concern Opinions: Evidence from Exploiting Exogenous Shifts in Analyst Coverage (May 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Parisa Saadat Behbahaninia
Agency costs and auditor choice: moderating role of board’s expertise and internal control
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ines Kammoun , Walid Khoufi
Sustainable performance, conditional conservatism and audit fees
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2023
Crossref
Thomas J. Chemmanur , Francesca Toscano
Suppliers as Financiers of the Last Resort: The Effect of Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage on Trade Credit Use
50 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 284
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nicholas Hallman , John S. Howe , Wei Wang
Analyst coverage and syndicated lending
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1531 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
998
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,403
RANK
52,519
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies