Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Entry Deterrence in the Audit Industry: Evidence from the Merger of Professional Accounting Bodies

46 Pages Posted: 16 May 2017 Last revised: 13 Jul 2021

Stephanie F. Cheng

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Danqi Hu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

Studies show that incumbents reduce prices in response to higher entry threats in consumer industries. We provide new insights on the importance of an incumbent firm’s reputation to the limit-pricing decision by examining a professional service industry where the supplier’s reputation serves as an existing barrier. The recent staggered passage of mergers of three Canadian accounting certification bodies exogenously increases the probability of future entry to incumbent audit firms. Employing difference-in-differences analyses and a strict fixed effects structure (client-firm, audit-firm, province, and year-month fixed effects), we find that incumbent audit firms reduce audit fees in response to a higher entry threat induced by the merger. The microstructure of the audit industry provides further insights—Non-Big4 audit firms reduce fees after the merger, while Big-4 audit firms can withstand higher entry threats and do not adjust fees.

Keywords: Entry Threats; Strategic Entry Deterrence, Industry Competition; Occupational Licensure; Merger Effects; Market Structure; Audit Industry; Audit Fees; Big-4 Auditors

JEL Classification: L10, L11, G30, G34, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Stephanie F. and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Hu, Danqi, Strategic Entry Deterrence in the Audit Industry: Evidence from the Merger of Professional Accounting Bodies (July 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Matthew T. Billett , Mark (Shuai) Ma , Xiaoyun Yu
Torpedo Your Competition: Strategic Reporting and Peer Firm IPO
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 732/2021, · 95 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 4 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 726
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,071
RANK
144,553
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies