Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Moral Disengagement as a Threat to Professional Skepticism

43 Pages Posted: 24 May 2017

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

Date Written: May 22, 2017

Abstract

Professional skepticism is an essential component of effective auditing, yet in recent years regulators have faulted auditors for insufficient skepticism. To examine what might lead to insufficient skepticism, I explore professional skepticism as a function of moral agency using the theory of moral disengagement (Bandura 1999). The results of two experiments, examining two different causes of moral disengagement—moral justifications and dehumanization—are consistent with predictions from the theory. In the first experiment, I find that creativity, a characteristic desired by audit firms, results in higher levels of professional skepticism. However, in the presence of time pressure, individuals with a creative mindset engage in less professional skepticism as a result of a more creative moral justification process. Experiment 2 examines a second type of moral disengagement, dehumanization. The results suggest that dehumanization increases when firms frame their public interest responsibilities as protecting the ‘capital markets.’ This increased dehumanization ultimately decreases professional skepticism. Alternatively, framing the audit firm’s public interest responsibilities as protecting individuals, specifically the individuals auditors may be more familiar with, increases humanization and professional skepticism. Overall, the results are consistent with the theory of moral disengagement. This study provides a new theoretical framework for understanding potential threats to professional skepticism and the role of moral agency in the execution of the audit.

Keywords: Audit, Professional Skepticism, Internal Control, Moral Disengagement, Justification, Dehumanization

Suggested Citation:

Eutsler, Jared, Examining Moral Disengagement as a Threat to Professional Skepticism (May 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
A comprehensive taxonomy of audit task structure, professional rank and decision aids for behavioral research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 11 Posted: 1999
C P Agoglia , C H Richard , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting education: Charting the course through a perilous future , volume 16 Posted: 2000
T Amabile
The social psychology of creativity: A componential conceptualization
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 45 , issue 2 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Mojtaba Heidar , Hashem Nikomaram
•Thinking Styles and Professional Skepticism in Auditing (Theory of Mental Self-Government)
Iranian journal of Value and Behavioral Accounting , volume 3 , issue 5 , p. 151 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Eric N. Johnson , D. Jordan Lowe , Philip M.J. Reckers
The influence of auditor narcissism and moral disengagement on risk assessments of a narcissistic client CFO
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , p. 106826 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,387
RANK
179,717
2 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies