Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of the PCAOB's Risk-Based Inspection Program: Are Inspection Findings Generalizable and Do They Improve Audit Quality?

57 Pages Posted: 24 May 2017 Last revised: 28 Jun 2017

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

Date Written: April 22, 2017

Abstract

I examine the extent to which the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (“PCAOB”) risk-based inspection process produces a generalizable signal of the annually inspected firms’ audit quality and improves audit quality. Specifically, I test whether account-specific deficiencies (revenues) are associated with account-specific audit quality (discretionary revenues) and if the association applies to a firm’s extended client portfolio or just clients that exhibit a higher likelihood of being selected by the inspection program. To do this, I create a selection model to approximate the PCAOB’s risk-based inspection process. Results suggest that inspection findings (at the firm level) can be generalized to the audit quality of those deficient accounts for the clients that exhibit higher levels of selection risk. Further, I find that audit quality increases in the subsequent fiscal year for the deficient accounts for clients with increased selection risk, indicating that the PCAOB risk-based inspection process improves audit quality.

Suggested Citation:

Eutsler, Jared, An Assessment of the PCAOB's Risk-Based Inspection Program: Are Inspection Findings Generalizable and Do They Improve Audit Quality? (April 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Andrew A Acito , Chris E Hogan , Richard D Mergenthaler
The Effects of PCAOB Inspections on Auditor-Client Relationships Posted: 2014
Crossref
Aicpa
Statement on auditing standard no. 108: Planning and supervision Posted: 2006
E I Altman
Corporate distress: A complete guide to predicting, avoiding and dealing with bankruptcy Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,793
RANK
242,798
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies