Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Current State and Future Directions of Continuous Auditing Research: An Analysis of the Existing Literature

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 May 2017

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Artur Kalinichenko

University Duisburg-Essen

Date Written: May 28, 2017

Abstract

Advances in information technology, especially the rise of the real-time economy and massive fraud scandals of corporations such as Enron, WorldCom, and Xerox, have led to significant changes in the business and risk environment of companies. As a consequence, requirements for the auditing profession changed, and call for the use of new auditing technologies such as continuous auditing. Previous empirical literature has identified a high acceptance of continuous auditing by practitioners within internal audit departments and external audit firms. We conduct a content analysis of 100 continuous auditing papers from 38 different journals published between 1983 and 2015. Our literature review summarizes and classifies the existing literature on continuous auditing, examines the current state of knowledge of continuous auditing in AIS research, and suggests future research opportunities.

Keywords: Continuous Auditing, Continuous Monitoring, Real-Time-Auditing, Internal Auditing, Internal Audit Function, External Audit

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Kalinichenko, Artur, The Current State and Future Directions of Continuous Auditing Research: An Analysis of the Existing Literature (May 28, 2017). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2976110
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies