Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Risk Disclosure and Audit Fee: A Text Mining Approach

Yang, R., Yu, Y., Liu, M., & Wu, K. (2018). Corporate risk disclosure and audit fee: A text mining approach. European Accounting Review, 27(3), 583-594.

Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 18 Feb 2022

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Yang Yu

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)

Manlu Liu

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Kean Wu

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: June 5, 2017

Abstract

The aim of this study is to introduce an innovative text mining approach to assess firms’ risks using unstructured textual disclosure from annual reports. Specifically, we use Natural Language Processing techniques to extract firms’ self-identified risks including financial, strategic, operational, and hazard risks based on an enterprise risk management framework. We examine the association between these four risk measures derived from the risk factor section in 10-K filings and audit fees. The results show that audit fees are significantly and positively related to firm-specific financial, strategic, and operational risks, indicating the informativeness of corporate textual risk disclosures. This study provides direct support for the recent US reporting regulatory requirement of adding a new section on risk factors in corporate annual reports.

Keywords: Textual Risk Disclosure, Audit Fee, Risk Management, Text Mining

JEL Classification: M42, G14, G32, D81

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Rong and Yu, Yang and Liu, Manlu and Wu, Kean, Corporate Risk Disclosure and Audit Fee: A Text Mining Approach (June 5, 2017). Yang, R., Yu, Y., Liu, M., & Wu, K. (2018). Corporate risk disclosure and audit fee: A text mining approach. European Accounting Review, 27(3), 583-594., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980919
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies