Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Auditor-Client Relationship Through Partner Rotations: The Experiences of Audit Firm Partners

Dodgson, M. K., C. P. Agoglia, G. B. Bennett, and J. R. Cohen. 2020. Managing the Auditor-Client Relationship Through Partner Rotations: The Experiences of Audit Firm Partners. Accounting Review 95 (2): 89–111. https://doi-org.ezproxy.neu.edu/10.2308/accr-52556

Posted: 9 Jun 2017 Last revised: 4 Feb 2021

Mary Kate Dodgson

Lehigh University

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

G. Bradley Bennett

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 1, 2020

Abstract

While current audit standards explicitly state engagement partner tenure requirements, firms have flexibility in managing the rotation process. We conduct semi-structured interviews with 20 U.S. audit firm partners who share their experiences on topics including how they identify appropriate candidate partners and what efforts they undertake to manage relationships with clients post-rotation. We investigate firms’ motivation to manage the auditor-client relationship through the lens of Social Exchange Theory (SET), and we consider how likely outcomes of this rotation process map onto regulators’ intent that a newly rotated partner provides a fresh perspective to the audit. Our study informs regulators and investors about the process by which engagement partners are selected for rotation, documenting that partner assignment is typically not random. Further, our finding that partner rotation is an extended process (rather than a single discrete event) has implications for audit researchers investigating the effects of partner rotation.

Keywords: partner rotation; relationship partners; partner selection; qualitative method; social exchange theory

Suggested Citation:

Dodgson, Mary Kate and Agoglia, Christopher P. and Bennett, George Bradley and Cohen, Jeffrey R., Managing the Auditor-Client Relationship Through Partner Rotations: The Experiences of Audit Firm Partners (March 1, 2020). Dodgson, M. K., C. P. Agoglia, G. B. Bennett, and J. R. Cohen. 2020. Managing the Auditor-Client Relationship Through Partner Rotations: The Experiences of Audit Firm Partners. Accounting Review 95 (2): 89–111. https://doi-org.ezproxy.neu.edu/10.2308/accr-52556, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2983255
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,731
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies