Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of 'Relationship' Partners on Client Managers' Negotiation Positions

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2017 Last revised: 4 Feb 2021

Mary Kate Dodgson

Lehigh University

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

G. Bradley Bennett

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: January 12, 2021

Abstract

To foster positive relationships with clients, audit firms often assign “relationship partners” (hereafter RPs) to engagements. Yet, little is known about RPs’ influence on disagreements that arise during fieldwork. We conduct an experiment with financial executives to examine the influence of RP intervention during auditor-client negotiations, and whether such influence depends on the extent to which the engagement partner and client have tried, albeit unsuccessfully, to resolve the issue (i.e., negotiation “ripeness”). We find that, without an RP, clients concede less during a more ripe negotiation stage (i.e., mutually hurting stalemate) than a less ripe stage. Yet, it is at this more ripe stage that certain RP intervention approaches can maintain clients’ trust in the audit firm and move them toward the auditor’s position (compared to no RP intervention). RPs can help end stalemates and minimize relationship impairment. We discuss implications for audit firms, regulators, and researchers.

Keywords: relationship partners, auditor-client negotiation, auditor-client relationships

Suggested Citation:

Dodgson, Mary Kate and Agoglia, Christopher P. and Bennett, George Bradley, The Influence of 'Relationship' Partners on Client Managers' Negotiation Positions (January 12, 2021). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2983280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2983280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C W Bame-Aldred , T Kida
A comparison of auditor and client initial negotiation positions and tactics. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 6 , p. 497 - 511 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield , C Stefaniak
The effect of deadline pressure on prenegotiation positions: A comparison of auditors and client management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1507 - 1528 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Bercovitch , A Houston
Why do they do it like this? An analysis of the factors influencing mediation behavior in international conflicts
Journal of Conflict Resolution , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 170 - 202 Posted: 2000
J L Bierstaker , J R Cohen , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee compensation, fairness, and the resolution of accounting disagreements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 131 - 150 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,343
RANK
216,737
10 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies