Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Settlements of Securities Class Actions

14 Journal of Empirical Legal Studies 169 (2017)

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 17-11

Posted: 29 Jun 2017

James J. Park

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: June 14, 2017

Abstract

Some corporate law scholars have concluded that auditors do not have sufficient legal incentive to detect securities fraud and should be governed by a strict liability standard. This study assesses this argument by examining a dataset of 554 class actions alleging an accounting restatement filed from 1996 through 2007. Because some but not all of these restatement cases named an auditor defendant, it is possible to analyze whether variables such as the liability standard affect both the decision to name an auditor defendant as well as the outcome of the case. Despite the narrowing of auditor liability under Rule 10b-5, auditors are still often named as defendants and pay substantial settlements in Rule 10b-5 cases. A more restrictive liability standard is associated with a modest reduction in the rate at which auditors are named as defendants and the rate at which auditor cases end in settlement. If a Rule 10b-5 case against an auditor is strong enough to result in a settlement, the legal standard does not affect the size of the settlement. The auditor’s payment is correlated with nonlegal factors such as whether the issuer is bankrupt and the issuer’s market capitalization. These results are best explained by the tendency of judges to read narrow liability provisions broadly in cases where the size and impact of the alleged fraud are significant. The evidence thus does not support the conclusion that a strict liability standard is necessary to generate sufficient incentives for auditors to detect substantial frauds.

Keywords: securities fraud, securities class actions, auditor liability, Rule 10b-5 cases, restrictive liability

Suggested Citation:

Park, James J., Auditor Settlements of Securities Class Actions (June 14, 2017). 14 Journal of Empirical Legal Studies 169 (2017), UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 17-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie Settings. 