Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mismatch between Expectations and Realities of AS 4 Audits: A Post-Implementation Research Analysis

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2017

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

We conduct a post-implementation research analysis of AS4, a standard guiding voluntary audits of material weakness (MW) remediation disclosures, to understand the reasons for the scarcity of AS4 audits in practice. We use multiple methods (experiments, comment letter analysis, and surveys) to understand the perspectives of key stakeholders. We find that regulators’ expectations of the use of the standard did not come to fruition because an equilibrium market for active use of the standard could not be achieved. Managers desire to engage in AS4 audits for the riskier MWs but do not expect the associated costs to be high. Auditors are reluctant to audit riskier MWs, and would charge a considerable risk premium. Finally, we find that investors value AS4 audits especially for riskier MWs and find value in an AS4 audit for those risky MWs beyond that of the year-end audit. The overall findings of our study indicate a mismatch in the cost-benefit functions of the key stakeholders led to a lack of AS4 audits. Our findings are important given the high costs associated with standard development and approval.

Keywords: auditing; assurance; material weakness remediation; internal controls; PCAOB AS4; standard-setting; value of an audit; demand and supply of auditing

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Peytcheva, Marietta, The Mismatch between Expectations and Realities of AS 4 Audits: A Post-Implementation Research Analysis (December 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2987919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2987919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S K Asare , A Wright
The effect of type of internal control report on users' confidence in the accompanying financial statement audit report
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 152 - 175 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Ballou , R J Casey , J H Grenier , D L Heitger
Exploring the strategic integration of sustainability initiatives: Opportunities for accounting research
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J C Bedard , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , K Westermann
Material weakness remediation and earnings quality: A detailed examination by type of control deficiency
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 78 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
834,175
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies