Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Internal Audit Dilemma - The Impact of Executive Directors versus Audit Committees on Internal Auditing Work

Managerial Auditing Journal 32 (2017), No. 9, 854-878

38 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2017 Last revised: 22 Oct 2018

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Jörg Henseler

Department of Design, Production & Management; Faculty of Engineering Technology; NOVA IMS

Annette Köhler

University of Duisburg-Essen

Date Written: June 15, 2017

Abstract

In addition to the well-known facilitators of good corporate governance, such as executive boards (EBs) and audit committees (ACs), recent literature increasingly refers to the benefits of implementing an internal audit function (IAF). This may lead to imminent problems, which are discussed under the phrase "Serving Two Masters" (STM) and determine our main research questions. Do the AC and EB in influence IAF's activities differently?

This study seeks to analyze how IAF activities differ, depending on the impact of executive boards and audit committees. It is based on data collected from the Common Body of Knowledge (CBOK) study conducted by the Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation in 2010. Using 524 responses from US-Chief audit executives we examine the direct and interaction effects of ACs and EBs on the probability to perform specific activities with a logistic regression model. In our manuscript, we show that audit committees and executive boards have different direct and interaction effects on the portfolio of activities performed by the internal audit function. Furthermore, we identified a varying prevalence among activities, which pinpoints to the maturity of IAFs. All findings contribute to the prior and recent discussion about the position of IAFs between the stakeholders audit committee and executive board. This study provides the first empirical evidence of the influence of ACs and EBs on IAF activities.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Executive Board, Audit Committee, Serving Two Masters

JEL Classification: M4, M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Henseler, Jörg and Köhler, Annette, The Internal Audit Dilemma - The Impact of Executive Directors versus Audit Committees on Internal Auditing Work (June 15, 2017). Managerial Auditing Journal 32 (2017), No. 9, 854-878, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2988267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
L Abbott , S Parker
Audit committee characteristics and auditor choice
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
L Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daughtery , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,500
RANK
166,710
3 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies