Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the SEC's XBRL Mandate on Audit Report Lags

Accounting Horizons: March 2018, Vol. 32, No. 1, pp. 1-27.

Posted: 21 Jun 2017 Last revised: 22 Dec 2019

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

John Daniel Eshleman

Rutgers - Camden

Cecilia (Qian) Feng

Stony Brook University - College of Business

Abstract

There is considerable debate about whether the adoption of EXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) will result in timelier SEC filings. We provide empirical evidence on this debate by investigating the effect of XBRL adoption on audit report lags. Using a hand collected panel of S&P 1500 clients’ XBRL financial report filings and both levels and difference-in-differences analyses, we show that audit report lags decrease following the mandatory adoption of XBRL. These results are robust to various sub-samples and model specifications. On average, audit report lags decrease anywhere from 0.4 to 3.4 percent (0.21 to 1.93 days) in the post-adoption period, depending on the specification used. We further document that these results are concentrated among filers with strong internal control systems and no prior XBRL reporting experience. We also find that audit report lags continue to decline in the years following adoption, which is indicative of a learning curve and improvements in XBRL reporting quality. Additional tests reveal that XBRL is negatively associated with audit fees, suggesting that the XBRL effect is at least partially driven by auditor efficiency gains. Our findings are informative for assessing the economic consequences of requiring XBRL adoption, which should be of interest to regulators, managers, and researchers.

Keywords: Audit Report Lag, XBRL, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Eshleman, John Daniel and Feng, Cecilia (Qian), The Effect of the SEC's XBRL Mandate on Audit Report Lags. Accounting Horizons: March 2018, Vol. 32, No. 1, pp. 1-27., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,926
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies