Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Identification and Characteristics: Evidence from U.S. Form AP Filings

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017 Last revised: 12 Nov 2018

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the overall impact of and the information made available by the recent audit partner disclosure requirement in the U.S. After a contentious comment period, the PCAOB released Rule 3211, which requires registered public accounting firms to disclose the name of the audit partner for every audit report it issues. In the first year of adoption, we find a significant increase in audit quality and audit fees and a significant decrease in audit delay. Furthermore, we collect information on partner gender, busyness, education, and social connections to explore whether these newly observable characteristics are associated with audit outcomes. We find that several of these characteristics are associated with variations in audit fees and audit delay, but no evidence of an association with audit quality. Overall, our findings suggest that the disclosure of partner name in Form AP enhances the audit information environment, which supports PCAOB motivation for Rule 3211.

Keywords: PCAOB, Form AP: audit partner disclosure, partner characteristics, gender, busyness, education, social connections

JEL Classification: M42, G18, G28, J16

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Jenna and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Audit Partner Identification and Characteristics: Evidence from U.S. Form AP Filings (November 1, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2989166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
B E Christensen , S M Glover , T C Omer , M J Shelley
Understanding audit quality: Insights from audit professionals and investors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1648 - 1684 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Cohen , P Cohen , S G West , L S Aiken
Applied multiple regression/correlation analysis for the behavioral sciences Posted: 2003
Crossref
L M Cunningham , C Li , S E Stein , N S Wright
What's in a name? Initial evidence of U.S. audit partner identification using difference-in-differences analyses
The Accounting Review Posted: 2018
Crossref
R A D&apos;aveni
Top managerial prestige and organizational bankruptcy
Organization Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 142 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,034
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,367
RANK
18,126
46 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies