Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Scale and Scope of the Client Portfolio and Audit Pricing at the Individual Auditor Level: Evidence from China

57 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2017

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 28, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the relation between the scale and scope of an individual auditor’s client portfolio and audit pricing to better understand how auditors of heterogeneous characteristics are differentiated in the audit market. Using a sample from the Chinese market for the period 2001-2010, where the personal identities of signing auditors are publicly disclosed, we find that audit price charged by an individual auditor is positively related to the scale of his/her client portfolio, measured in terms of either total audit fees or the number of clients. However, the industry scope (diversity) of the client portfolio attenuates this positive relation between portfolio scale and pricing. Further analyses indicate that auditors of higher ability and reputation tend to have larger client scales and wider client scopes, and that scale is not related to audit delays whereas industry scope is positively related to delays. Taken together, our results suggest that at the individual auditor level, the scale of the client portfolio conveys the auditor’s ability (type), and given the scale, the industry scope of clients signals the auditor’s workload. Finally, our findings are mostly confined to auditors from non-Big N audit firms.

Keywords: audit pricing, individual auditor, client portfolio, scale, industry scope

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Mao, Juan and Qi, Baolei and Zhang, Guochang, The Scale and Scope of the Client Portfolio and Audit Pricing at the Individual Auditor Level: Evidence from China (June 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2993806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
S Chakrabarty
The influence of unrelated and related diversification on fraudulent reporting
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 815 - 832 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A T Craswell , J R Francis , S L Taylor
Auditor brand name reputations and industry specializations
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 322 Posted: 1995
Crossref
H Chen , J Chen , G Lobo , Y Wang
Effects of audit quality on earnings management and cost of equity capital: Evidence from China
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 892 - 925 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Y Chen , C J Lin , Y C Lin
Audit partner tenure, audit firm tenure, and discretionary accruals: Does long auditor tenure impair earnings quality?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 415 - 445 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,044
RANK
276,301
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie Settings. 