Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Default Swaps on Corporate Debt and the Pricing of Audit Services

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2017

Lijing Du

Towson University - Department of Finance

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Felix Meschke

University of Kansas - Finance Area

Date Written: June 27, 2017

Abstract

Previous studies document that lenders lack incentives to monitor borrowing firms or to make concessions during bankruptcy if these lenders insure against corporate default with credit default swaps (CDS). This article investigates whether external auditors increase their audit fees for those client firms that have their debt referenced by CDS. In a comprehensive sample of U.S. companies from 2001-2015 it finds that CDS-referenced companies incur larger audit fees compared to companies without CDS. The economic magnitude of the audit fee increase ranges from 5.4 percent to 11 percent, depending on the econometric specification employed. Deteriorating corporate conditions or other observable characteristics do not explain the positive association between CDS trading and audit fees, or the increase in audit fees following CDS initiations. The findings suggest that auditors increase their professional skepticism and monitoring efforts of CDS-referenced clients; they might also expect higher liability losses.

Keywords: credit default swaps (CDS), empty creditor problem, audit fees, auditing, pricing of audit services, client business risk, audit risk

JEL Classification: G10, G30, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Du, Lijing and Masli, Adi and Meschke, Felix, Credit Default Swaps on Corporate Debt and the Pricing of Audit Services (June 27, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,596
RANK
294,906
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies