Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Misreporting Risk in Firms’ 10-K Disclosures and the Auditor’s Role in Mitigating Misstatements

62 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 21 Sep 2018

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 2018

Abstract

The purpose of public company audits is to increase the integrity of firms’ financial statements. However, research provides mixed evidence on whether better auditors mitigate misstatement risk embedded in the financial reporting process. A challenge in previous studies is the lack of a powerful measure of inherent, “pre-audit” reporting risk. We overcome this issue by developing a novel, powerful measure of accounting misstatement risk (AMR) from 10-K text. We validate this measure by documenting economically significant associations with both audit fees and misstatements. We then empirically test whether relatively higher quality audits, measured using a variety of characteristics, attenuate the association between AMR and subsequent restatements. Contrary to our prediction, however, we find minimal evidence that better auditors mitigate the association between AMR and the likelihood of subsequent restatement. Further analysis supports the notion that AMR inhibits auditors’ ability to mitigate reporting risk through increased audit fees and that AMR captures innate reporting risk rather than managerial obfuscation. Overall, we expect our results to be of interest to managers, accountants, and regulators, all of whom seek to minimize negative consequences of misreporting.

Keywords: accounting, auditing, textual analysis, misreporting risk, restatements

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G32

Suggested Citation:

Moon, James and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas, Measuring Misreporting Risk in Firms’ 10-K Disclosures and the Auditor’s Role in Mitigating Misstatements (September 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2997967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2997967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The Effects of PCAOB Inspections on AuditorClient Relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Agarwal , V Y S Chen , W Zhang
The Information Value of Credit Rating Action Reports: A Textual Analysis
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 8 , p. 2218 - 2240 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K D Allee , M D Deangelis , J R Moon
Disclosure "Scriptability". Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 363 - 430 Posted: 2018
Crossref
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,874
RANK
174,067
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies