Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Tenure, Audit Firm Size and Audit Quality

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(4) 2014. 69-76

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Padri Achyarsyah

Padjadjaran University, Students

Molina

Universitas Nasional (UNAS)

Date Written: October 12, 2014

Abstract

Objective – The objective of this paper is to examine the effect of audit firm tenure and audit firm size on audit quality. This study applies explanatory research in which questionnaire and interviews serve as the primary data. The population of this study is public accounting firms which are registered in the Indonesian capital market.

Methodology/Technique –The study presents a survey using professional auditors. Multiple regression method is used to conduct an hypothesis test of the effect of audit firm tenure and audit firm size on audit quality.

Findings –The result of study depicted that audit firm tenure has no significant influence on the audit quality, while audit firm size has significant influence on the audit quality. Audit quality deteriorate, when the length of the audit firm client engagement is longer. No particular concern to audit firm size since big audit firm size has extensive training for their staffs and sufficient system in place.

Novelty – The study contributes to auditing literature in the areas of audit quality. The length of the audit firm client relationship and audit firm size always rise the contradiction to the audit quality. The audit firm tenure and audit firm size support previous study, additional insight is gained toward in the elections of the audit firm that serves professional services in capital market.

Type of Paper: Research paper.

Keywords: Audit Firm Tenure; Audit Firm Size; Audit Quality; Auditor

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Achyarsyah, Padri and , Molina, Audit Firm Tenure, Audit Firm Size and Audit Quality (October 12, 2014). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(4) 2014. 69-76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Ali A Al-Thuneibat , Al Issa
Do audit firm tenure and firm size contribute to audit quality? Empirial vidence from Jordan
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 317 - 334 Posted: 2011
Rana A Baker , Ali Al-Thuneibat
Audit tenure and the equity risk premium: evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 23 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Michael E Bamber , Iyer , M Venkataraman
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M H Bazerman , K P Morgan , G F Loewenstein
The impossibility of auditor independence
Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
848
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,934
RANK
65,792
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies