Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Factors and Acceptance of Dysfunctional Audit Behaviour: Evidence from Indonesian Public Sector Audit

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review Vol. 3(4) 2015. 36-43

8 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017

Suhernita

Universitas Andalas

Husna Roza

Universitas Andalas

Date Written: October 16, 2015

Abstract

Objective – This study examines various personal factors that influence auditor’s acceptance of Dysfunctional Audit Behaviours in the Indonesian public sector audit

Methodology/Technique – The data used in this study were gathered by means of questionnaires to auditors at the Indonesian Supreme Audit Board (BPK) in three provinces in Sumatera Island (West Sumatera, Riau and Jambi). The data were analyzed using Path analysis by means of SmartPLS 2.0 Software Package.

Findings – The findings of this study suggest that several personal characteristics of public sector auditor such as external locus of control and turnover intention contribute to auditor’s acceptance of DAB. However, inconsistent with previous studies on auditors in public accounting firms, this study fails to support the association of personal characteristic such as auditor’s self-rated performance and organizational commitment to the acceptance of DAB.

Novelty – Unlike those of private sector audit, only a few studies investigating auditor acceptance of dysfunctional audit behaviour (DAB) in public sector have been conducted. This study fills the theoretical gap in that area within the context of Indonesian public sector audit.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Audit; Public Sector; Dysfunctional Behaviour; Locus of Control; Performance

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

, Suhernita and Roza, Husna, Personal Factors and Acceptance of Dysfunctional Audit Behaviour: Evidence from Indonesian Public Sector Audit (October 16, 2015). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review Vol. 3(4) 2015. 36-43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
N Aranya , K R Ferris
A re-examination of accounts' organizational professional conflict
The Accounting Review , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1984
C W Alderman , J W Deitrick
Auditors' perception of time budget pressures and premature sign offs: a replication and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
P J Andrisani , G Nestle
Internal-external control as a contributor to and outcome of work experience
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 156 - 65 Posted: 1976
Crossref
P Brownell
Participation in budgeting, locus of control and organizational effectiveness
The Accounting Review , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 844 - 60 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
627,303
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies