Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of the Quality of an Audit to Relationship Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and Relevance of Value Accounting Information, and Asymmetry of Information (Study on Companies in Indonesia)

Global Journal of Business & Social Science Review Vol.5(1) 2017. 46-52

7 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017

Yurniwati

Universitas Andalas

Amsal Djunid

Universitas Andalas

Nini Sumarni

Universitas Andalas

Ike Pranita

Universitas Andalas

Date Written: January 8, 2017

Abstract

Objective – This study examines the influence of the quality of an audit to the relationship of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and Relevance of Value Accounting Information, and Asymmetry of Information in Indonesia’s companies.

Methodology/Technique – This research uses secondary data obtained from the company's annual report in 2012 - 2014. A purposive sampling method is used to collect data and the analysis of the hypothesis was conducted using multiple linear regression analysis.

Findings – The research has shown that Quality of Audit has a significant influence to the relationship of the OCI disclosure and Relevance of Value Accounting Information has a value of sig. 0.000, F calculate is 26.816 larger than F table 2.396 and adjusted R square 0.241.

Novelty – The study looks at the disclosures of OCI component’s role in the investors decision making and it increases value relevance of accounting information and reducing information asymmetry.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Other Comprehensive Income (OCI); Relevance of Value Accounting Information; Information Asymmetry; Quality of Audit

JEL Classification: D82, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Yurniwati and Djunid, Amsal and Sumarni, Nini and Pranita, Ike, The Influence of the Quality of an Audit to Relationship Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and Relevance of Value Accounting Information, and Asymmetry of Information (Study on Companies in Indonesia) (January 8, 2017). Global Journal of Business & Social Science Review Vol.5(1) 2017. 46-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Robert Anthony , N , Vijay Govindarajan
Management Control System, edisi kesebelas Posted: 2005
W H Beaver , J W Kennelly , W M Voss
Predictive ability as a criterion for the evaluation of accounting data
The Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 675 - 683 Posted: 1968
A R Belkaoui
Impact of earning manajement on value relevance of accounting information: Empirical Evidence from Japan. Departement of Accounting and Information Systems Posted: 2000
W C Boyton , R N Johnson
Modern Auditing Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
361,062
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies