Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big 4 Auditors, Litigation Risk, and Disclosure Tone

46 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2017 Last revised: 4 May 2020

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Biyu Wu

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Date Written: May 31, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of Big 4 auditors on management’s use of optimistic language in audited financial statement disclosures. While regulators and practitioners consider the audit of disclosures to be increasingly important, empirical evidence of an auditor’s effect on management’s qualitative disclosure choices is limited. Focusing on the notes to the financial statements, which are the primary disclosure item subject to audit, we find that the tone of the qualitative footnote disclosures is significantly more reflective of bad economic news in the presence of a Big 4 auditor compared with a non-Big 4 auditor. This Big 4 effect on footnote disclosure tone is more pronounced for the sub-sample of firms with high litigation risk and continues to hold for a matched sample constructed using entropy balancing to control for inherent differences between clients of Big 4 and non-Big 4 auditors. Finally, when we examine Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which is not subject to audit, we do not find a Big 4 effect on the sensitivity of its tone to bad news. Our results are consistent with higher litigation exposure motivating Big 4 auditors to constrain management’s use of optimistic language while auditing financial reports. This research provides new evidence to the ongoing regulatory discussions regarding the value of auditing disclosures.

Keywords: Big 4 audit, Tone, Disclosure, Footnotes, Litigation risk

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith and Lisic, Ling Lei and Wu, Biyu and Zhang, Ivy, Big 4 Auditors, Litigation Risk, and Disclosure Tone (May 31, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Sudipta Basu , Lee-Seok Hwang , Ching-Lih Jan
Differences in Conservatism between Big Eight and Non-Big Eight Auditors
Pages: 58 Posted: 3 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,873
RANK
241,875
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie Settings. 