Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Considering Key Audit Matters Affect Auditor Judgment Performance?

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 1, Autumn 2019 (Special Issue)

15 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 6 Dec 2019

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the impact of considering key audit matters (KAM) on auditor judgment performance. This study uses a 2×2 between-subjects experiment based on a goodwill impairment testing case with 73 auditors. The two independent variables KAM consideration (present vs. absent) and client pressure (high vs. low) are manipulated. As dependent variables, skeptical judgment and action as different facets of auditor judgment performance are used. The results suggest that auditors exhibit significantly less skeptical judgment when KAM consideration is present than when KAM consideration is absent. This implies that, when considering KAM, auditors are more willing to acquiesce to their clients’ desired accounting treatments due to moral licensing. By showing that KAM consideration leads to less skeptical judgment, it can be documented that the new KAM reporting requirement, intended to improve the communicative value of the auditor’s report for users (IAASB, 2012), comes at the expense of auditor judgment performance. As in every experiment, the risk that the results are case-specific has to be acknowledged.

Keywords: key audit matters, client pressure, auditor judgment performance, motivated reasoning, goal commitment, moral licensing

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Theis, Jochen, Does Considering Key Audit Matters Affect Auditor Judgment Performance? (December 1, 2019). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 17, Issue 1, Autumn 2019 (Special Issue), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3003318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Statement on auditing standards No. 90. Retrieved from AICPA website Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Asbahr , K Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Ann G. Backof , Kendall O. Bowlin , Brian Matthew Goodson
The Importance of Clarification of Auditors’ Responsibilities Under the New Audit Reporting Standards
Pages: 45 Posted: 6 Jun 2014 Last revised: 27 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T D Bauer
The effects of client identity strength and professional identity salience on auditor judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 114 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Weerapong Kitiwong , Naruanard Sarapaivanich
Consequences of the implementation of expanded audit reports with key audit matters (KAMs) on audit quality
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 35 , issue 8 , p. 1095 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Karsten Asbahr , Klaus Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Patrick Velte , Jakob Issa
The impact of key audit matter (KAM) disclosure in audit reports on stakeholders’ reactions: a literature review
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 323 Posted: 2019
Crossref
María Jesús SEGOVIA-VARGAS , María del Mar CAMACHO-MIÑANO , Yolanda PÉREZ-PÉREZ
A systematic literature review of financial reporting risks: What’s next?
ECORFAN Journal Mexico , p. 1-19 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,871
RANK
31,209
9 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies