Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Auditors and Relationship-Specific Investment in Supplier-Customer Relationships

57 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2016

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Jaideep Shenoy

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

Ryan Williams

Imperial College London; Enoda

Date Written: July 2017

Abstract

Theory suggests that information asymmetry between supplier and customer firms exacerbates the holdup problem. We investigate if an auditor common to the supplier and customer firm improves information flows leading to reduction in the holdup problem. Consistent with this notion, we find that shared auditors enhance relationship-specific investments in supplier-customer relationships. This positive relation is more pronounced in product market environments more prone to holdup problems between suppliers and customers are more prevalent. In contrast, we document no relation in a placebo sample of randomly matched supplier-customer pairs, supporting a causal linkage. Finally, we Arthur Andersen’s failure as an exogenous shock to show that supplier-customer pairs that shared Andersen prior to its failure are more likely to share an auditor post-failure in environments where relationship-specific investments are important. Overall, we demonstrate that common auditors mitigate the investment inefficiency in relationship-specific assets.

Keywords: Supplier-customer relationships, relationship-specific investments, common auditor, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M4, L00, L14, L22

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Shenoy, Jaideep and Williams, Ryan, Common Auditors and Relationship-Specific Investment in Supplier-Customer Relationships (July 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , T Mitton
Determinants of Vertical Integration: Financial Development and Contracting Costs
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 1251 - 1290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Allen , G Phillips
Corporate equity ownership, strategic alliances, and product market relationships
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Armour , D Teece
Vertical Integration and Technological Innovation
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 62 , p. 470 - 474 Posted: 1980
Crossref
G Bae , S Choi , D Dhaliwal , P Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,906
RANK
29,100
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies