Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Bank Regulators and External Auditors on Loan Loss Provisions

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2017 Last revised: 27 May 2018

Allison Nicoletti

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: July 18, 2017

Abstract

I examine whether bank regulators and external auditors have conflicting effects on loan loss provision timeliness, an accounting choice associated with important economic consequences and a potential conflict between regulators and auditors. In the absence of the other group, auditors and strict regulators are each positively associated with timeliness. However, audits are negatively associated with timeliness when strict regulators are present, consistent with a conflict for which auditors are the dominating group as audited banks attain a similar level of timeliness regardless of the extent of regulatory scrutiny. Collectively, this suggests that regulators and auditors differentially influence loan loss provisions.

Keywords: banks; loan loss provisions; bank supervision; auditors

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nicoletti, Allison, The Effects of Bank Regulators and External Auditors on Loan Loss Provisions (July 18, 2017). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3004690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3004690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent Regulators: Evidence from Banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Thomas , C Takeda
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management, and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alexander , D Dahl , M Spivey
The Effects of Bank Lending Practices on CRA Compliance Examination Scheduling and Non-Compliant Banks' Recovery 1990-1998
Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 65 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
174,067
46 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies