Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turkish Listed Manufacturing Companies’ Audit Structure and Its Effect on Earnings Management

20 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2017 Last revised: 13 Jun 2019

Gökberk Can

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: July 20, 2017

Abstract

Using a sample of 1,333 firm year observations during 2005-2013, this research focuses on Turkish listed manufacturing companies’ audit structures’ effect on their earnings management via accruals and business activities. Audit structure was divided into the internal audit function and audit committee. Provision of the internal audit (a department, parent company or both) and audit committee characteristics (size, independence and meeting frequency) are the independent variables of this research and the earnings management is the dependent variable which was calculated as a magnitude for discretionary accruals and manipulation of business activities with Kothari, Leone and Wasley (2005) and Roychowdhury (2006) respectively.

The results revealed that manipulating the business activities are correlated with neither the internal audit nor the audit committee. Also, internal audit solely provided by the parent company has no effect on the earnings management via discretionary accruals but internal audit department and the department supported by the parent company’s internal audit decrease the earnings management via accruals. On the other hand, I didn’t find any statistical significance with the audit committee characteristics and discretionary accruals. Although it was not the main focus of this research, the results show that female Turkish auditors are more risk-averse than their male counterparts.

Keywords: audit comittte, internal audit, discretionary accruals, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Can, Gökberk, Turkish Listed Manufacturing Companies’ Audit Structure and Its Effect on Earnings Management (July 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3005962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3005962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The Association between Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate Governance, Audit Quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence from Internal Audit Outsourcing , volume 82 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Arellano
Computing Robust Standard Errors for Within Group Estimators
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics Posted: 1987
Crossref
S K Asare , R A Davidson , A Gramling
Internal Auditors' Evaluation of Fraud Factors in Planning an Audit: The Importance of Audit Committee Quality and Management Incentives
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 181 - 203 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
RANK
627,303
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies