Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Audit Quality: Evidence from Deposit Money Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 7, No. 2, April 2017

14 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ezechukwu Beatrice

Federal Polytechnic, Oko

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 26, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the determinants of audit quality with a focus on selected Deposit Money Banks listed on the floor of Nigeria Stock Exchange from 2010-2015. This study made use of secondary data obtained from fact books, annual reports and account of selected banks under study. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation, Ordinary Least Square (OLS) and Granger causality test with the aid of E-view 9.0. The result of this study revealed that there is a positive and statistically significant relationship between audit fees, audit tenure, audit firm size and audit quality. It was also empirically verified that audit fees, audit tenure, audit firm size have a statistically significant relationship with audit quality of banks listed on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange at 5% level of significance. The study recommends among others that auditor-client relationship should not exceed 3 years, because the auditor may develop close relationship with the client and become more likely to act in favour of management, resulting in reduced objectivity and audit quality.

Keywords: Audit quality, audit fees, audit tenure, audit firm size

JEL Classification: L15, M15, M53

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Beatrice, Ezechukwu, Determinants of Audit Quality: Evidence from Deposit Money Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange (April 26, 2017). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 7, No. 2, April 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S B Adeyemi , T O Fagbemi
Audit quality, corporate governance and firm characteristics in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Agnieszka
Audit firm tenure and audit quality: Amsterdam Business School. Working paper Posted: 2011
A Akinjobi , O Omowumi
The changing responsibilities of auditors in detection and prevention of business frauds within a challenging environment in Nigeria
Journal of Emerging Trends in Economics and Management Sciences , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 75 Posted: 2010
J Ali
The auditing firm size effect on the actual auditing quality
Journal of Applied Environmental and Biological Sciences , volume 5 , issue 7 , p. 311 - 320 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
50,895
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies