Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One Firm and Two Regulators: The Role of PCAOB Cooperation in Cross-Listing Auditing

47 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2017 Last revised: 14 Dec 2017

Frank M. Song

The University of Hong Kong - School of Economics and Finance

Zengyuan Sun

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: November 30, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of regulation cooperation between the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and foreign counterparts on U.S.-listed foreign firms’ auditing fees, auditor choice, and auditing efforts. We argue that denying access to auditing inspections and information sharing due to judicial law conflicts between two sovereign states leads to a deadweight cost for non-U.S. firms’ auditing in the form of high legal burdens; however, effective PCAOB cooperation helps solve this issue and reduces auditors’ legal frictions while improving their efforts. Consistent with our argument, after the institution of PCAOB cooperation with a U.S.-listed foreign firm’s home-country regulators, auditors charge lower fees to the firms. This effect is more significant for firms from strong rule of law countries, those that use top 4 auditors, and those that have poor earnings quality. Further, non-U.S. firms — especially poor-quality firms — are more likely to select top 4 auditors. Finally, accounting restatement rates decrease after PCAOB cooperation, and this decline is more pronounced for firms with abnormally high auditing fees.

Keywords: PCAOB cooperation, legal liability, audit fees, auditor choice, audit efforts

JEL Classification: G18, L51, M49

Suggested Citation:

Song, Frank M. and Sun, Zengyuan, One Firm and Two Regulators: The Role of PCAOB Cooperation in Cross-Listing Auditing (November 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
330,157
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies