Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Audit Team Industry and Client-Specific Experience Impact Audit Effort and Fees

Posted: 14 Aug 2017

Christine Contessotto

Deakin University - Faculty of Business and Law

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: August 11, 2017

Abstract

Prior research into the effect of different types of experience on audit effort and fees has been conducted at the individual, office or firm level, with an implicit assumption that the team working on each audit is invariant or irrelevant to audit effectiveness or efficiency. An important motivation for team level research is that within team variation may provide evidence on the how the structure of an audit team can influence the conduct and pricing of an audit. Using team level data provided by two mid‐tier firms, we find that audit team industry and client‐specific experience each have a unique effect on effort and fees. Specifically, team level industry experience is associated with the use of lower ranked auditors and marginally lower audit fees, while team level client‐specific experience is associated with higher hours and fees. Our results indicate that audit teams with industry experience enjoy cost savings, some of which are passed on to their clients while audit teams with client‐specific experience incur additional effort, perhaps due to increased effort in response to identified risks or by providing value‐added services, which their clients are prepared to pay for.

Keywords: industry experience; client-specific experience; audit effort; audit fees

JEL Classification: M2

Suggested Citation:

Contessotto, Christine and Knechel, Warren Robert and Moroney, Robyn, How Do Audit Team Industry and Client-Specific Experience Impact Audit Effort and Fees (August 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3017085
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,463
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies