Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Level 3 Fair Values for Financial Instruments: Relevance or Reliability? Evidence from a Conjoint Analysis

Accounting and Business Research (forthcoming)

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 16 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Apr 2025

Stephanie Jana

ESCP Business School Berlin

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

Using conjoint analysis, we examine the extent to which relevance and reliability contribute to the decision usefulness of level 3 fair value measurements for financial instruments. Relevance and reliability are the two fundamental qualitative characteristics for providing decision useful information as the primary objective of financial reporting. Participants ranked, by decision usefulness, five different techniques for determining the essential parameters to estimate a level 3 fair value for a financial instrument. The techniques have different combinations that trade off relevance and reliability. Our main analysis uses 202 MSc and MBA students enrolled in financial and managerial accounting courses. We find that relevance contributes to decision usefulness more than reliability. We find similar results with smaller samples of financial analysts and auditors. The findings have implications for preparers, academics, and standard-setters.

Keywords: Fair Value, Measurement Concept, Relevance, Reliability

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jana, Stephanie and Schmidt, Martin, Level 3 Fair Values for Financial Instruments: Relevance or Reliability? Evidence from a Conjoint Analysis (August 15, 2023). Accounting and Business Research (forthcoming), ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3018638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3018638
 Not Available for Download
103 References
Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting
Accounting Standards Board (UK) Posted: 1999
A Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
P D Allison , N A Christakis
Logit models for sets of ranked items
Sociological Methodology , volume 24 , p. 199 - 228 Posted: 1994
J Altamuro , H Zhang
The financial reporting of fair value based on managerial inputs versus market inputs: Evidence from mortgage servicing rights
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 18 , p. 833 - 858 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies