Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the Internal Control Opinion and Use of Audit Data Analytics on Perceptions of Audit Quality, Assurance, and Auditor Negligence

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 41(1): 25-48

54 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2017 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Helen L. Brown-Liburd

Rutgers University, Newark - Rutgers Business School - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Kerri Ann Sanderson

Bentley University

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Advanced audit data analytics tools allow auditors to analyze the entire population of accessible client transactions. Though this approach has measurable benefits for audit efficiency and effectiveness, auditors caution that it does not incrementally increase the level of assurance expressed relative to the financial statements’ fair presentation. We experimentally examine whether the audit testing methodology (audit data analytics versus traditional sampling) and the type of internal control (ICFR) opinion auditors issue (unqualified versus adverse) affect jurors’ perceptions of auditor negligence after an audit failure. We predict and find that when auditors issue an unqualified ICFR opinion, jurors make higher negligence assessments when auditors employ traditional statistical sampling techniques than when they employ audit data analytics. We also find that when auditors issue an adverse ICFR opinion, jurors attribute less blame to auditors and correspondingly more blame to the investor for an audit failure. Additional analyses reveal that jurors perceived the use of audit data analytics as an indicator of higher audit quality and are less likely to find auditors negligent. However, jurors do not perceive a difference in the level of assurance provided by the audit opinion when auditors use ADAs or traditional sampling testing methods. Our study informs regulators, practitioners, and academics about the contextual effects of the ICFR opinion and the perceived assurance and potential litigation effects of using advanced technological tools in the audit.

Keywords: auditor liability, audit data analytics, audit quality, statistical sampling

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Brown-Liburd, Helen L. and Sanderson, Kerri Ann, The Effects of the Internal Control Opinion and Use of Audit Data Analytics on Perceptions of Audit Quality, Assurance, and Auditor Negligence (February 1, 2022). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 41(1): 25-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Audit Analytics and Continuous Audit, Looking Toward the Future , p. 92 - 93 Posted: 2015
D Andrews , B Nonnecke , J Preece
Electronic survey methodology: A case study in reaching hard-to-involve internet users
International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 210 Posted: 2003
B Arel , M M Jennings , K Pany , P M Reckers
Auditor liability: A comparison of judge and juror verdicts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 516 - 532 Posted: 2012
S K Asare , B C Fitzgerald , L Graham , J R Joe , E M Negangard , C J Wolfe
Auditors' internal control over financial reporting decisions: Analysis, synthesis, and research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,679
RANK
23,908
13 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies