Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Influence and Auditor Independence Revisited: Evidence from Auditor Resignations

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 17-05

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-033

48 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 12 Oct 2017

Tom Adams

La Salle University

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jayanthi Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

Financial scandals such as those surrounding the Enron-Andersen debacle provoke concerns that auditors lack independence when faced with influential clients, and are unwilling to respond to client risks by resigning. Unlike previous studies that examine whether client influence affects audit quality on ongoing engagements (and provide mixed results), we investigate whether office-level client influence affects auditor resignations from risky clients for whom the resignation decision is most salient. Using a sample of risky clients, we find that (1) auditors are more likely on average to resign from influential clients, and (2) this positive association holds for non-Big N auditors, auditors in smaller offices, and non-specialist auditors. We speculate that audit firms or audit offices that have inadequate mechanisms to mitigate independence risk use resignation as a tool to counter such risk. This is consistent with the suggestions offered in professional guidance. Also, importantly, the effect of client influence is distinct from that of client size. Influential clients are prevalent across the spectrum of absolute client size, and the positive association between client influence and auditor resignations occurs for both large and small clients.

Keywords: Client Influence, Bargaining Power, Auditor Change, Auditor Independence, Independence Risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Thomas and Krishnan, Jagan and Krishnan, Jayanthi, Client Influence and Auditor Independence Revisited: Evidence from Auditor Resignations (July 1, 2017). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 17-05, Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-033, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3024877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Abelson , J D Glator
Enron's Collapse: the Auditors; Who's Keeping the Accountants Accountable?
The New York Times Posted: 2002-01-15
Aicpa
AICPA Plain English Guide to Independence
Aicpa
Practice Aid Series: Establishing and Maintaining a System of Quality Control for a CPA Firm's Accounting and Auditing Practice -Firm with Multiple Offices
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,636
RANK
136,584
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies