Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Diversity and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Pairing of Audit Partners

Perry, Y. Z., B. Srinidhi, and Z. Yang. 2023. Gender diversity and audit quality: Evidence from the Pairing of Audit Partners. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, forthcoming.

50 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2017 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Karen Yumin Zhang

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 11, 2023

Abstract

Using the Chinese setting where two partners are assigned to lead each engagement, we find that gender-diverse partner pairs improve audit quality compared to same-gender partner pairs. We show that the positive effect of partner gender diversity is concentrated in the engagements led by two partners with similar seniority or collaborating as signatory partners for an engagement before or in clients with complex operations. We evaluate two potential factors that could drive the positive effect of partner gender diversity, namely, the perspective-broadening and the human capital factors, and show that perspective-broadening prevails, whereas the human capital factor does not. Our results are robust to controlling for endogeneity and using alternative measures of audit quality.

Keywords: auditor; auditor pairing; gender diversity; audit quality

JEL Classification: M42; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Yang, Zhifeng and Zhang, Karen Yumin, Gender Diversity and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Pairing of Audit Partners (April 11, 2023). Perry, Y. Z., B. Srinidhi, and Z. Yang. 2023. Gender diversity and audit quality: Evidence from the Pairing of Audit Partners. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3025235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 Citations
Maria Grosu , Bogdan Narcis Fîrțescu , Raluca Andreev , Camelia Cătălina Mihalciuc
Assessing the Quality and Transparency of Financial Audit Reporting in the Context of Gender Differences – Evidence from Companies Listed on the Regulated Market
Scientific Annals of Economics and Business , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 41 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Rosinta Ria Panggabean
Audit Partner Gender, Audit Quality, Audit Report, Net Income, Book Value of Equity and Value Relevance
Wintari, T. and Panggabean, R. R. 2020. Audit Partner Gender, Audit Quality, Audit Report, Net Income, Book Value of Equity and Value Relevance. Proceeding the 1st International Congress on Regional Economic Development, Information Technology, and Sustainable Business, Surakarta, Indonesia. · 15 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
854
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,988
RANK
65,287
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies