Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Fair Value on Audit Quality: Evidence from Tunisia

Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 29-38

10 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Salem Lotfi Boumediene

University of Illinois Springfield

Emna Boumediene

University of Manouba

Ikram ikram Amara

University of Manouba

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study collects the views of Tunisian external auditors about the impact of audit challenges related to fair value on audit quality and the role of the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) 540 in mitigating these challenges. Based on responses from 52 Auditors to our questionnaire, we found out that the fair value is perceived as engendering technical difficulties for auditors. However, these challenges at fair value have no negative impact on audit quality. On the other hand, 78.8% of our respondents believe that the International Standards on Auditing 540 plays a significant role in mitigating the audit challenges related to fair value. Thus our study shows that in the eyes of Tunisian external auditors, benefits of fair value outweigh its disadvantages and the International Standards on Auditing 540 provide auditors by all the necessary tools to deal with audit challenges related to fair value estimates.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Fair Value, International Standards on Auditing, Logistic Regression

JEL Classification: M41, M42, C12, C25

Suggested Citation:

Boumediene, Salem Lotfi and Boumediene, Emna and Amara, Ikram ikram, The Impact of Fair Value on Audit Quality: Evidence from Tunisia (2017). Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 29-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Bartov , S R Goldberg , M Kim
Comparative Value Relevance Among German, US and International Accounting Standards. A German Stock Market Perspective
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,523
RANK
306,268
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies