Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Multinational Expertise and Audit Quality

46 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2017

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 28, 2017

Abstract

Over the past several decades, the scope of public companies’ operations has become increasingly global. This has led to concern over the ability of audit firms to conduct high-quality audits across geographically dispersed foreign operations. We contribute to the growing body of research in this area by investigating the association between audit quality and local audit offices’ expertise in conducting multinational audit engagements.

We use two complementary measures to proxy for an audit office’s multinational expertise:

(i) local multinational market leadership, and

(ii) country-specific experience.

Using a sample of multinational client firms headquartered in the United States, we consistently find that audit quality is stronger when the auditor possesses expertise conducting global group audits, possesses particular expertise in the country where a client has a significant subsidiary, or possesses both types of expertise on an engagement. Several sample partitions reinforce our main results. The results are robust to propensity score matching as well as a placebo test using clients of the audit office that generate no foreign sales. Our evidence suggests that the challenge of conducting multinational audits is more easily met by auditors with expertise on these types of engagements.

Keywords: audit quality, group audits, multinational audits, auditor expertise

JEL Classification: M40, M42, F23

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Joshua L. and Michas, Paul N., Auditor Multinational Expertise and Audit Quality (August 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3028146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3028146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,434
RANK
114,866
7 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies