Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dysfunctional Behavior in Organizations: Insights from the Management Control Literature

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2017 Last revised: 24 Sep 2017

Krista J. Fiolleau

University of Waterloo

Theresa Libby

Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting - University of Central Florida

Linda Thorne

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: September 2, 2017

Abstract

As the scope of the audit continues to broaden (Cohen, Krishnamoorthy and Wright 2017), research questions in management control and internal control are beginning to overlap. Even so, there is little overlap between these fields in terms of published research to date. The purpose of this paper is to take a step in bridging the gap between the management control and the internal control literatures. We survey relevant findings from the extant management control literature published between 2003 and 2016 on dysfunctional behavior and the ways in which it might be mitigated. We then use the fraud triangle as an organizing framework to consider how the management control literature might help to address audit risk factors identified in SAS 99/AU SEC 316 (AICPA 2002). The outcome of our analysis is meant to identify and classify the extant management control literature of relevance to research on internal control in a manner that researchers new to the management control literature will find accessible. We conclude with a set of future research opportunities that can assist to broaden the scope of current research in internal control.

Keywords: internal control, management control, fraud triangle, rationalization, pressure, opportunity

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Fiolleau, Krista J. and Libby, Theresa and Thorne, Linda, Dysfunctional Behavior in Organizations: Insights from the Management Control Literature (September 2, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M J Ahearne , J Boichuk , C Chapman , T J Steenburgh
Real earnings management in sales
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 1233 - 1266 Posted: 2016
Crossref
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud Examination. South-Western Posted: 2003
W S Albrecht , G W Wernz , T L Williams
Fraud: Bringing light to the dark side of business Posted: 1995
Crossref
AICPA Practice Aid Series, Fraud Detection in a GAAS Audit. SAS No. 99 Implementation Guide Posted: 2002
Load more
3 Citations
Dan Way
The Effects of Openness of Internal Reporting and Shared Interest with an Employee on Managerial Collusion and Subsequent Cooperation
53 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pujawati Mariestha (Estha) Gondowijoyo , Christie Hayne
The Importance of Social Mechanisms in the Commission of or Resistance to Fraud: A Field Study
55 Pages · Posted: 8 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 29 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 140
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jacobo Gomez-Conde , Laura Gomez-Ruiz , Cristina Grande-Herrera
<p><span> Real-Time Information Availability and Performance: Evidence from a Natural Experiment</span></p>
56 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2024 · Last revised: 22 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,138
RANK
153,575
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies