Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Visibility of an Engagement Partner’s Association with Recent Client Restatements Increase Fee Pressures from Non-Restating Clients?

70 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2017 Last revised: 10 Mar 2021

Wuchun Chi

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: March 2021

Abstract

We examine whether engagement partners who have recently been associated with client restatements experience increased audit fee pressures from their non-restating clients. Using data from the United States (U.S.) and Taiwan, we find evidence of lower audit fees among non-restating companies whose audit engagement partner was recently associated with another client’s restatement. These findings are generally strongest when the partner-associated restatement is more prominent or severe, and in the U.S., when non-restating clients are in the same industry as the restating client. Although we find very limited evidence that fee pressures lead to lower quality audits for these partners’ other clients in Taiwan, we find that when the partner-associated restatement is more prominent or severe, fee pressures negatively impact audit quality in the U.S. These findings provide further insight on the impact of engagement partner disclosure for audit quality.

Keywords: audit quality, engagement partners, audit partners, audit fee pressure

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Wuchun and Lisic, Ling Lei and Myers, Linda A. and Pevzner, Mikhail and Seidel, Timothy A., Does Visibility of an Engagement Partner’s Association with Recent Client Restatements Increase Fee Pressures from Non-Restating Clients? (March 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3032610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3032610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Beck , C E Hogan , A Imdieke
An analysis of the effectiveness and consequences of PCAOB disciplinary actions for auditors and their clients. Working paper Posted: 2018
M Bertrand , E Duflo , S Mullainathan
How much should we trust differences-indifferences estimates?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J V Carcello , C Li
Costs and benefits of requiring an engagement partner signature: Recent experience in the United Kingdom
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 5 , p. 1511 - 1546 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,134
RANK
239,334
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies