Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Joint to Single Audits – Audit Quality Differences and Auditor Pairings

Accounting and Business Research (2018 Forthcoming)

44 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2017

Claus Holm

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business

Frank Thinggaard

University of Aarhus - Aarhus School of Business

Date Written: September 13, 2017

Abstract

This study analyses audit quality differences between audits by a single big audit firm and joint audits with either one or two big audit firms. We exploit the unique situation in Denmark beginning on 1 January 2005, at which time a long-standing mandatory joint audit system for listed companies was replaced by a voluntary joint audit system. First, we report the results of a survey of Danish CFOs’ views on and their experiences with the choice of single or joint audits and their perceptions of audit quality. Second, based on data from the mandatory joint audit abolition year and the following two years, we test the audit quality differences using abnormal accruals. Most CFOs perceive that audit quality by a single big four audit firm is the same as it is in joint audits with either one or two big four audit firms. The results of our empirical analysis are in line with the perceptions. We find no evidence of audit quality differences between audits made by a single big four firm and those conducted by either of the two combinations of joint audits.

Keywords: Joint audits, audit pairings, audit quality, auditor choice

JEL Classification: M42, L84

Suggested Citation:

Holm, Claus and Thinggaard, Frank, From Joint to Single Audits – Audit Quality Differences and Auditor Pairings (September 13, 2017). Accounting and Business Research (2018 Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3036465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Auditors Act
Lov nr. 468 af 17
Revisorloven Posted: 2008
Auditors Act
Revisorloven (Law of Approved Auditors) Posted: 2016-09
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,713
RANK
239,334
6 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies