Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non- Auditing Services and Audit Quality in Nigeria-Perspectives and Issues

Chapter 56 in Managing Diversification for Sustainable Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: Proceedings of 2016 International Conference of the Faculty of Management Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 8th-10th November, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Gloria Ogochukwu Okafor

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 8, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the perception of stakeholders on the effect of the provision of non -auditing services by an auditor to his audit client on audit quality. A survey research design was deemed appropriate for the study. 400 respondents were sampled, however only 350 usable responses were available for the study. A five point Likert scale questionnaire was used to elicit information from the stakeholders. Descriptive statistics and the t-test statistic were employed for the analysis of the responses and testing the hypothesis for statistical significance. Descriptive statistics were used to determine the most common reasons for the responses of the financial statement users as to whether provision of non-auditing services to audit clients by auditors impair audit quality. The findings show that provision of non-auditing services to audit clients like doing book-keeping work for a client or internal audit services, is viewed by respondents as impairing audit quality. The results also indicate the respondents’ perception or view point of the likely non-auditing services that should not be combined by auditors when extending audit services to their clients. The results of this study have implication for regulatory action both at the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN) level and at the self- regulatory level of the accounting profession in Nigeria.

Keywords: Non-auditing services, stakeholders, Audit quality, perception

Suggested Citation:

Chukwunedu, Okaro Sunday and Okafor, Gloria Ogochukwu and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Non- Auditing Services and Audit Quality in Nigeria-Perspectives and Issues (November 8, 2016). Chapter 56 in Managing Diversification for Sustainable Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: Proceedings of 2016 International Conference of the Faculty of Management Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 8th-10th November, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Y Abiodun
Corporate audit committees and risk controlling in Nigeria
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 12 Posted: 2013
S B Adeyemi , J K Olowokere
Non-Audit Services and Auditor independence
Business and Management Review , volume 2 , issue 5 , p. 89 - 97 Posted: 2012
S B Adeyemi , J K Olowokere
Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence -Inveastors Perspectives in Nigeria
Business and Management Review , volume 2 , issue 5 , p. 89 - 97 Posted: 2012
I Allehaidan
Do the Prhibition of Non-Audit Services Affects the Audit Quality and Fees ? Evedince from Saudi Arabia
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 10 , p. 33 - 42 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
253,661
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies