Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Perceptions of Government Deregulation: Evidence from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Accounting Horizons, forthcoming.

50 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2017 Last revised: 1 Feb 2022

Benjamin W. Hoffman

Cleveland State University

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Jason L. Smith

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the stock market’s reaction to events leading up to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (PCAOB) 2007 regulatory changes that reduced the scope of and documentation requirements for assessments of firms’ internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR), as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The stated goal of these regulations was to reduce firms’ and auditors’ compliance costs with mandatory ICFR assessments, while maintaining the effectiveness of these assessments. We examine abnormal returns surrounding key dates leading to the passage of these regulations and offer two main findings. First, investors reacted negatively on key event dates, suggesting that investors viewed the regulations as likely to reduce financial reporting quality rather than to drive firm and audit efficiencies. Second, this negative market reaction is larger when ICFR effectiveness should matter most – when firms are more complex, have higher litigation risk, and greater fraud risk. In additional analysis, we find that restatements increase in the post-regulation time period, consistent with investors’ concerns that the effect of the legislation would be a reduction in ICFR effectiveness. Overall, our results may imply that investors prefer stronger government regulation when it comes to the assessments of a firm’s internal controls over financial reporting.

Keywords: regulation; internal control effectiveness; financial reporting quality; audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Hoffman, Benjamin W. and Campbell, John L. and Smith, Jason L., Investor Perceptions of Government Deregulation: Evidence from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (September 1, 2020). Accounting Horizons, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The Discovery and Reporting of Internal Control Deficiencies Prior to SOX-Mandated Audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,906
RANK
375,525
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies