Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforms to the Market for Audit and Assurance Services in the Period after the Global Financial Crisis: Evidence from the UK

Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Sep 2017

Mike Kend

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Ilias G. Basioudis

Aston University - Aston Business School

Date Written: September 24, 2017

Abstract

There was little effect by the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) on audit practices in Australia, as the country was largely sheltered from the GFC. The U.K. and Europe which had experienced significant reforms to audit were not sheltered from the GFC and regulators and law makers were pressured to take further action. The key UK and European audit reforms included the expanded auditors' report, disclosures on materiality thresholds, bans, caps and restrictions on non-audit services, viability statements released by directors, more powers for audit committees and mandatory firm rotation by auditors. The aim of this exploratory research study is to obtain the views of relevant stakeholders in relation to the benefits and costs of the recent UK audit reforms and the new EU Audit Directive (July 2016), and via a synthesis of these results and a review of the relevant Australian accounting literature, consider whether there is scope and benefits for Australia to now adopt similar reforms to audit and assurance services. The study finds that there are significant reforms to audit that have benefited the UK audit profession, and an open debate in Australia needs to be considered regarding the need for similar reforms perhaps before the next wave of accounting scandals and corporate collapses. The study suggests a need for a more proactive approach to audit reform and this lends support to recent findings from Australian accounting research studies.

Keywords: Audit Reforms, Audit and Assurance Markets, Regulations

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Kend, Mike and Basioudis, Ilias G., Reforms to the Market for Audit and Assurance Services in the Period after the Global Financial Crisis: Evidence from the UK (September 24, 2017). Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042309
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,048
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

English & Commonwealth Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies