Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does distance matter? An investigation of partners who audit distant clients and the effects on audit quality

62 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2017 Last revised: 26 Sep 2021

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Nargess Golshan

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 24, 2021

Abstract

We use hand-collected data to show that approximately half of audit partners are assigned to clients headquartered more than 100 kilometers away from the partners’ home locations. Few of these partners relocate after receiving their assignments and, as a result, more than one-third of clients are audited by partners that must commute long distances to visit the client in person. We explore this phenomenon by first modeling how distance affects partner-client matching. We find that partners’ geographic proximity to a prospective client is an important matching criterion, but also that tradeoffs are made when other partner characteristics such as industry specialization are more likely to be important. Next, we show that audit quality is lower when partners reside farther from their clients. We corroborate our primary findings by showing that the association between partner distance and audit quality is mitigated when partners have access to direct flights to their clients’ headquarters and when clients are geographically dispersed. Our paper should be informative for regulators, practicing auditors, and academics interested in how partner-client matching affects audit outcomes.

Keywords: Audit Partners, Geographic Proximity, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R. and Golshan, Nargess and Hallman, Nicholas, Does distance matter? An investigation of partners who audit distant clients and the effects on audit quality (September 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , S Siddiqui , A Vinelli
2021 Heterogeneity in expertise in a credence goods setting: evidence from audit partners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 693 - 729
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The Economics of Audit Production: What Matters for Audit Quality? An Empirical Analysis of the Role of Mid-level Managers within the Audit Firm Posted: 2021
M Baugh , N Hallman , S Kachelmeier
A matter of apperances: How does auditing expertise benefit audit committees when selecting auditors?
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
870
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,829
RANK
63,484
23 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies