Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Religiosity on Auditors' Behavior and Audit Fees

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2017

55 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2017

Bikki Jaggi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Hua Christine Xin

University of South Alabama

Date Written: September 27, 2017

Abstract

Extending the existing literature on the impact of religiosity on human behavior, we argue that religiosity also has a significant impact on auditors’ risk and trust behavior, which is reflected in lower audit fees. Higher religiosity values are expected to motivate auditors to provide higher reliability to information and they would achieve this by reducing audit risk and audit effort. Auditors operating in high religiosity areas are expected to readjust their client portfolio in a way that their overall risk exposure is lower. Additionally, high religiosity would enhance mutual trust among auditors and managers which will encourage auditors to recognize higher reliability of information prepared by managers operating in high religiosity areas. The higher reliability of information generated by managers will in turn result in lower audit risk and lower audit effort. The joint effect of lower risk and lower audit effort will translate into lower audit fees for auditors operating in high religiosity areas, especially when the client firms are also located in high religiosity areas. The results confirm that overall firm risk as well as audit fees are lower for the client firms of auditors operating in high religiosity areas compared to the client firms of auditors operating in lower religiosity areas. The findings also show that the negative association is stronger when auditors are located in rural high religiosity areas and also when the client firms have comparatively lower complexity, reflected by a lower number of firm segments, because lower complexity reduces audit risk and audit effort.

Keywords: Religiosity, Audit Fees, Rural Areas Religiosity, Urban Areas Religiosity, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: Z12, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Jaggi, Bikki and Xin, Hua Christine, Impact of Religiosity on Auditors' Behavior and Audit Fees (September 27, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3044031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Alesina , E L Ferrara
Participation in Heterogeneous Communities
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 847 - 904 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R J Barro , R M Mccleary
Religion and Economic Growth across Countries
American Sociological Review , volume 68 , issue 5 , p. 760 - 781 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C D Batson , P Schoenrade , W L Ventis
Religion and the Individual: a Social-Psychological Perspective Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,952
RANK
158,103
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies