Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SOX 404(b) Exemption Effects on Auditor Changes

Managerial Auditing Journal (2016), Vol. 31 Issue: 4/5, pp.387-402

Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 19 Nov 2017

Benjamin W. Hoffman

Cleveland State University

Albert Nagy

John Carroll University - Boler School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to investigate whether the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Section 404(b) exemption caused an increase in auditor changes due to changes in expectations for both auditors and their clients.

Design/methodology/approach: This paper predicts that this exemption caused a significant amount of auditor changes post-exemption, due to a change in expected future economic rents (audit scope demands) for auditors (clients). Logistic regression analysis is used to examine whether auditor changes increased for non-accelerated filers (public companies with less than $75 million in public float), who were affected by this exemption, compared to auditor changes for accelerated filers (public companies with greater than $75 million in public float), who were not affected by this exemption.

Findings: The results show a significant positive association between the exemption and auditor dismissals for non-accelerated filers compared to that of accelerated filers. This finding is robust when sensitivity tests are used.

Practical implications: Prior literature finds that an increase in auditor changes can have various positive and negative effects on the affected companies. Thus, investors will be interested in the results of this paper when making their investment decisions with regard to non-accelerated filers.

Social implications: The results of this paper will aid policymakers as they consider the pros and cons of this exemption, as it pertains to the affected companies.

Originality/value: This paper is the first to study the effects of this exemption on auditor turnover for the affected companies.

Keywords: Internal control, Auditor changes, Non-accelerated filers, SOX 404, SOX 404(b) exemption

Suggested Citation:

Hoffman, Benjamin W. and Nagy, Albert, SOX 404(b) Exemption Effects on Auditor Changes (June 1, 2016). Managerial Auditing Journal (2016), Vol. 31 Issue: 4/5, pp.387-402, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047586
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies