Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Distrust Matter More than Trust? How Audit Judgment is Influenced by Inconsistent Evidence

47 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017 Last revised: 21 Nov 2022

Erin M Hawkins

Clemson University

Amy Donnelly

Clemson University

Joel Owens

Portland State University

Date Written: November 17, 2022

Abstract

Prior auditing literature considering the influence of trust on auditor judgment and decision making has largely ignored distrust, viewing it as one end of a unidimensional measure of trust. Psychology literature, however, suggests that trust and distrust are distinct constructs with fundamental differences (e.g., Lewicki, McAllister, and Bies 1998). As such, the current research examines whether trust and distrust mediate the relationship between the receipt of inconsistent evidence from the client and auditor effort, and whether distrust has a greater influence than trust on auditor effort. Results suggest that distrust, rather than trust mediates the aforementioned relationship. Additionally, prior consistent experiences with the client weaken the negative influence that inconsistent evidence has on perceptions of trust and distrust. Further, trust and distrust are quick to repair after receiving inconsistent evidence.

Keywords: Trust, Distrust, Auditor-Client Experiences, Evidence Consistency

Suggested Citation:

Hawkins, Erin M and Donnelly, Amy and Owens, Joel, Does Distrust Matter More than Trust? How Audit Judgment is Influenced by Inconsistent Evidence (November 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
U Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The effects of source-competence information and its timing on auditors' performance of analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 148 Posted: 1994
E Aschauer , M Fink , A Moro , K Van Bakel-Auer , B Warming-Rasmussen
Trust and professional skepticism in the relationship between auditors and clients: Overcoming the dichotomy myth
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 42 Posted: 2017
M J Ashleigh , M Higgs , V Dulewicz
A new propensity to trust scale and its relationship with individual well-being: Implications for HRM policies and practices
Human Resource Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 360 - 376 Posted: 2012
A H Ashton , R H Ashton
Sequential belief revision in auditing
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 623 - 641 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
812,770
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies