Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Engagement Auditors on Financial Statement Comparability

53 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017

Liuchuang Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Jieying Zhang

The University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: October 3, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines whether engagement auditors have a distinguishable effect on clients’ financial statement comparability, incremental to the effect of the audit firms and offices. Our basic premise is that each individual auditor has a unique style of interpreting and implementing accounting and auditing standards, which may affect their clients’ financial statement comparability. We first show that the engagement-auditor fixed effect significantly improves the adjusted-R2 in explaining clients’ accrual comparability with industry peers, in addition to the audit-firm and audit-office fixed effect. We then document that engagement auditors’ past comparability style predicts their new clients’ accrual comparability, suggesting that the engagement auditors’ style persists over time. Finally, we find that within the same audit firm or office, two clients audited by the same engagement auditor have more comparable accruals than two clients audited by different engagement auditors. Taken together, our findings suggest that the engagement auditors have a distinguishable effect on clients’ financial statement comparability, incremental to the effect of the audit firms and offices.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability; Engagement auditor; Fixed effect

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Liuchuang and Qi, Baolei and Zhang, Jieying, The Effect of Engagement Auditors on Financial Statement Comparability (October 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Daniel Aobdia , Chan-Jane Lin , Reining Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 53 Posted: 7 Sep 2013 Last revised: 12 Feb 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , Williams , C
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,001
RANK
100,411
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies