Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Investigations of Audit Partners and Audit Quality Improvement

China Journal of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming)

36 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017

Rui Ge

Shenzhen University & Audencia Business School

Janus Jian Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: August 29, 2017

Abstract

Prior studies of the effect of regulatory monitoring on audit quality focus on regulatory sanctions but ignore regulatory investigations. We hand-collected data on the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) investigations announced during 2001–2015 to examine the impact of CSRC investigations on the audit quality of the targeted partners. We find that after the audit partners are investigated by the CSRC, their clients exhibit a lower absolute value of discretionary accruals and the partners are more likely to issue modified audit opinions. Our results suggest that CSRC investigations lead to improvement in the audit quality of the partners involved in the investigations. In contrast, CSRC sanctions have a relatively weak effect on the audit quality of the involved partners. Overall, our study provides evidence that CSRC monitoring helps to improve the audit quality of audit partners, and the effect manifests around CSRC investigations.

Keywords: audit partners, audit quality, CSRC investigations, regulatory monitoring

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Rui and Zhang, Janus Jian, Regulatory Investigations of Audit Partners and Audit Quality Improvement (August 29, 2017). China Journal of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Andenaes
The general preventive effects of punishment
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 114 , issue 7 , p. 949 - 983 Posted: 1966
Crossref
S F Cahan , J Sun
The effect of audit experience on audit fees and audit quality
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 78 - 100 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Cameran , D Campa , J R Francis
How important is partner variation in explaining audit quality? Working paper Posted: 2017
Crossref
C Caramanis , C S Lennox
Audit effort and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 116 - 138 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,488
RANK
502,214
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies