Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditor Style on Reporting Quality: Evidence from Germany

Accepted in Abacus

42 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2017 Last revised: 3 Dec 2020

Vlad-Andrei Porumb

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Abe de Jong

Monash University; University of Groningen; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Carel Huijgen

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Teye A. Marra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Jan van Dalen

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Date Written: September 27, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines whether the ‘style’ of individual auditors influences financial reporting quality in Germany. Audit quality in Germany should be uniformly high, because of strong reputational needs, strict controls on operating procedures, and quality enforcement mechanisms. An audit partner’s style should not affect this quality level. However, our results do not support this expectation. Exploiting a unique dataset comprising the names of the audit engagement and review partners of listed German companies, we find that audit engagement partners in Germany have a significant influence on audit quality, beyond firm- and office-level factors. In contrast, audit review partners do not have a consistent significant influence on audit quality. We measure audit quality by the level of a firm’s abnormal accruals and its propensity to meet or beat an earnings target. We also find that the 2005 adoption of a new audit quality enforcement system that includes ‘naming and shaming’ does not reduce the influence of audit partner style on financial reporting quality.

Keywords: audit quality, auditor style, engagement partner, Germany, reputation, review partner

JEL Classification: C33, K20, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Porumb, Vlad-Andrei and de Jong, Abe and Huijgen, Carel A. and Marra, Teye A. and van Dalen, Jan, The Effect of Auditor Style on Reporting Quality: Evidence from Germany (September 27, 2017). Accepted in Abacus, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3048713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3048713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 88 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 74 Posted: 2019
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,824
RANK
256,498
4 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies