Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Archival Literature on Audit Partners

Accounting Horizons, 2018

Posted: 9 Oct 2017

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Xi Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: October 7, 2017

Abstract

The last decade has witnessed a boom in archival studies examining auditing at the partner level. This research is timely because audit partners’ names in the United States have been publicly disclosed starting in 2017. This paper reviews the existing archival literature on audit partners, discusses some concerns with certain aspects of the literature, and provides some suggestions for future research.

Keywords: audit partners; auditing; literature review; research opportunities

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Wu, Xi, A Review of the Archival Literature on Audit Partners (October 7, 2017). Accounting Horizons, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049323
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies