Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Risk-Based Audit on Quality Internal Control of Selected Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Amahalu, Nestor Ndubuisi, Chinyere, Obi Juliet and Christian, Okika Elochukwu, Effect of Risk-Based Audit on Quality Internal Control of Selected Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (September 31, 2016)

11 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Okika Christian

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Date Written: September 31, 2016

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the effect of risk-based audit on quality internal control of selected deposit money banks in Nigeria. Survey method was used for this studywhile random sampling technique was adopted. Paired T-test and Cronbach Alpha via Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 20 were used to analyse the data. Primary data were collected using the questionnaire as the primary research instrument. Findings showed that risk-based audit has a statistically significant effect on quality internal control of deposit money banks at 5%. In view of the above findings, this study recommended that risk-based internal audit should be enhanced through adoption of better risk assessment so as to effectively improve the quality of internal control in commercial banks in Nigeria.

Keywords: Risk-Based Audit, Internal Control, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Obi, Juliet and Okika, Elochukwu, Effect of Risk-Based Audit on Quality Internal Control of Selected Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (September 31, 2016). Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Amahalu, Nestor Ndubuisi, Chinyere, Obi Juliet and Christian, Okika Elochukwu, Effect of Risk-Based Audit on Quality Internal Control of Selected Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (September 31, 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3050253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
H R Arjmandi
Managing audit risk, 2rd edn Posted: 2001
V Forsati
The shortcomings of system-based auditing and its replacement with riskbased auditing in Iran Posted: 2002
C Harrington
Internal audit's new role
Journal of Accountancy , volume 198 , p. 65 - 70 Posted: 2004
A M Khodadad
Barriers to audit risk estimation in Iran. MAthesis Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Nestor Amahalu
Effect of Forensic Accounting Application on Financial Crime Detection in Deposit Money Banks in Anambra State
International Journal of Advanced Engineering and Management Research, Vol. 2 Issue 6, 2017 · 30 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 316
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,701
RANK
247,257
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies