Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Inspections, Rotations and Client Preferences on Staffing Decisions

Moroney, R., W.R. Knechel and C. Dowling (2019) The effect of inspections, rotations and client preferences on staffing decisions Accounting and Finance 59:2645-2677

33 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2017 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Carlin Dowling

University of Melbourne

Date Written: October 16, 2017

Abstract

With increased regulatory focus on audits and concerns about whether audit regulation is achieving its stated aims, it is timely to investigate how regulator inspection of audit files and partner rotations may be affecting staffing decisions. This is an important issue, which affects all audits, as the calibre of staff allocated across engagements impacts the quality of audit work delivered. This paper reports the results of an experiment where auditor participants allocate staff across two audits, where regulation anticipated (none, inspection, rotation) and a client request for the best staff (absent, present) are manipulated between-subjects. We find that auditors allocate lower calibre staff when neither an inspection nor rotation is anticipated than when either is anticipated. When an inspection is anticipated, auditors allocate staff with more knowledge and compliance skills. When a rotation is anticipated, auditors allocate staff with more people skills. A client request for the best staff only has an effect when a partner is due to be rotated, where auditors allocate staff with more people skills in response to the client request. Our findings provide greater understanding of staffing decisions, which may affect audit quality if concerns around audit inspections and partner rotations are perceived by auditors as more important than the underlying risk or complexity of an engagement when allocating staff.

Keywords: Audit Inspections; Partner Rotation; Staff Allocation; Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Moroney, Robyn and Knechel, Warren Robert and Dowling, Carlin, The Effect of Inspections, Rotations and Client Preferences on Staffing Decisions (October 16, 2017). Moroney, R., W.R. Knechel and C. Dowling (2019) The effect of inspections, rotations and client preferences on staffing decisions Accounting and Finance 59:2645-2677, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: the association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process preliminary evidence, Working paper Posted: 2015
S K Asare , G M Trompeter , A M Wright
The effect of accountability and time budgets on auditors' testing strategies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 560 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,340
RANK
640,442
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies