Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Specific and Task Specific Auditing Expertise: The Case of Goodwill Impairment

58 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2017

Giulio Greco

University of Pisa

Silvia Ferramosca

University of Pisa

Giuseppe D'Onza

University of Pisa

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 20, 2017

Abstract

There is growing interest among academics and auditing regulators on the role of auditing on the quality of accounting estimates including goodwill impairment. Prior research shows that managers exercise discretion when recording goodwill impairment by either delaying the decision to record the impairment, and/or understating the amount of impairment leading to overstatement of earnings. This study examines how auditor industry expertise, measured as within-industry market share, and task specific expertise, measured as the extent of auditor’s prior experience with goodwill impairment, mitigates managerial discretion. We find no evidence of an association between industry expertise and goodwill impairment. We find that task specific expertise reduces managerial discretion related to the impairment. Specifically, prior experience with goodwill impairment is positively associated with both the likelihood of recording impairment loss as well as the amount of impairment. Our findings have implications for ongoing discussions about auditor characteristics affecting the quality of accounting estimates.

Keywords: auditor industry expertise, task expertise, goodwill impairment

Suggested Citation:

Greco, Giulio and Ferramosca, Silvia and D'Onza, Giuseppe and Causholli, Monika, Industry Specific and Task Specific Auditing Expertise: The Case of Goodwill Impairment (October 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3056459 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3056459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B Bratten , M Causholli , L Myers
Fair Value Exposure, Auditor Specialization, and Banks' Discretionary Use of the Loan Loss Provision. Working paper Posted: 2017
Crossref
B Bratten , L M Gaynor , L Mcdaniel , N R Montague , G E Sierra
The Audit of Fair Values and Other Estimates: The Effects of Underlying Environmental, Task, and AuditorSpecific Factors Auditing: A
Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 7 - 44 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D V Budescu , M E Peecher , I Solomon
The Joint Influence of the Extent and Nature of Audit Evidence, Materiality Thresholds, and Misstatement Type on Achieved Audit Risk
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 19 - 41 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T D Cairney , G R Young
Homogenous Industries and Auditor Specialization: An Indication of Production Economies
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , p. 49 - 67 Posted: 2006
Load more
3 Citations
Steven Utke
Calculating Auditor Industry Specialist Tenure: Code from Gaver and Utke (2019)
16 Pages · Posted: 1 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 3 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 501
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Atanas Atanasov
Репутацията като обект на счетоводството: признаване, оценяване, оповестяване (Goodwill As An Accounting Object - Initial recognition, Evaluation, Disclosure)
Репутацията като обект на счетоводството: Признаване, оценяване, оповестяване, GlobeEdit (April 9 2019) ISBN:‎ 978-6139414833, · 338 Pages · Posted: 29 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bohan Song
Auditor Specialization in Securities’ Industries and Insurer’s Fair Value Reporting
50 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 185
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,926
RANK
284,192
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies