Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Readability and Communicative Performance of Auditor's Report Post ISA 700

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 64-96

Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Mondher Fakhfakh

University of Sfax

Date Written: October 28, 2017

Abstract

Currently, the International Standard on Auditing (ISA 700) is a reference model for several independent auditors. The purpose of this paper is to examine the understandability of the illustrations provided by ISA 700 in terms of the structural features of international auditors’ reports. The paper discusses the compliance level of international auditors’ reports with the linguistic rules and the implications for users of financial statements. It provides new empirical evidence about the linguistic features of international illustrations provided by the ISA 700 and legibility of auditing results. The measurement of the understandability of unmodified reports is performed in terms of the linguistic characteristics of standardized reports wording. The empirical results show that the standardized illustrations are not fully understandable by users of financial statements. The illustrations of international auditors’ reports are not compliant with several linguistic rules.

Suggested Citation:

Fakhfakh, Mondher, An Empirical Investigation of Readability and Communicative Performance of Auditor's Report Post ISA 700 (October 28, 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 64-96, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3060957
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies