Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Professional Competences and Firm Size

Posted: 31 Oct 2017

Ana Millán

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Pedro Ortín-Ángel

Autonomous University of Barcelona - Faculty of Economics and Business Studies

Stefan Sundgren

Umea School of Business and Economics, Umeå University; University of Vaasa

Date Written: October 16, 2017

Abstract

The CPA exam provides an evaluation of auditors’ professional competence in the early stages of their careers.

Using Swedish data, this paper shows that:

i) auditors at Big 4 firms are younger when they take the exam,

ii) younger auditors and auditors at Big 4 firms perform better in the exam,

iii) there is a positive association between the results of the CPA exam and wage increases after receiving the CPA certification, with the association being stronger in Big 4 firms,

iv) the probabilities of switching from a Big 4 firm to a non-Big 4 decreases with wages (the opposite happens with switches from non-Big 4 firms to Big 4 firms).

This evidence is consistent with a matching process based on imperfect information about the competences of the auditors in which Big 4 audit firms attract and retain the most competent auditors from each cohort.

Keywords: CPA exam, compensation, competences, Big 4

JEL Classification: J24, J31, J44, M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Millán, Ana and Ortín-Ángel, Pedro and Sundgren, Stefan, Auditors’ Professional Competences and Firm Size (October 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061792
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies