Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Misstatements in Financial Statements? Evidence from Germany

51 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2017

Lilia Pasch

Ruhr University of Bochum

Date Written: February 7, 2017

Abstract

I use data provided by the German Financial Reporting Enforcement Panel containing 1,174 enforcement examinations between 2005 and 2016 to study the determinants of material misstatements in audited financial reports in Germany. In contrast to previous research, the dataset used in this study allows differentiating between misstated financial reports and reports where no errors were detected by the enforcer. Results from logistic regressions suggest that firms with lower accruals, less capital market pressure, higher blockholder shareholdings, and better corporate governance are less likely to produce erroneous reports. Several differences between the findings from the USA and Germany are identified and discussed. In total, this study contributes to the developing literature on accounting quality in international context by providing new evidence from a large German sample.

Keywords: enforcement, misstatements, accounting quality, accruals, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Pasch, Lilia, What Drives Misstatements in Financial Statements? Evidence from Germany (February 7, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
327,319
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies