Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abnormally Long Audit Report Lag and Future Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China

38 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2017

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Hedy Jiaying Huang

School of Accountancy, Albany Campus

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the association between abnormally long audit report lag and future stock price crash. Audit report lag is defined as the period between a company’s fiscal year end and the audit report date, and is informative about audit efficiency. Although a substantial body of literature investigates the determinants of audit report lag, scant empirical evidence exists on the consequences of audit report lag. Using data from Chinese listed companies we find evidence that abnormally long audit report lag increases the risk of a future stock price crash. We further document that this adverse consequence is more pronounced for firms with a poor internal control environment. Our research contributes to the literature on audit report lag, stock price crash risk and the effectiveness of internal control.

Keywords: Abnormally Long Audit Report Lag, Stock Price Crash Risk, Internal Control, China

JEL Classification: G10, G12, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Huang, Hedy Jiaying, Abnormally Long Audit Report Lag and Future Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China (October 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062264 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
Int. J. Aud , volume 21 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
J. Corp. Fin , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Account. Rev , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R H Ashton , P R Willingham , R K Elliot
An empirical analysis of audit delay
J. Account. Res , volume 25 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
119,199
3 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies