Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost of Equity, Pension Intensity Risk and Audit Quality: An Empirical Examination of Their Relations

43 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2017

Robert Houmes

Jacksonville University

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

Prior research documents that markets efficiently impound pension plan risk into a defined benefit plan’s market value. This study adds to these prior works by investigating how audit quality affects the pension risk – cost of equity relation. Using proxies to measure pension intensity, and audit quality, we document that audit quality attenuates the positive relation between a sponsoring firm’s cost of equity and the scaled magnitude of the firm’s pension intensity risk. We rationalize these findings by asserting that the positive relation between a defined benefit plan firm’s cost of equity and pension intensity reflects increased financial risk associated with higher pension obligations but the quality of the auditor reduces this risk.

Keywords: Defined Benefit Pension Plans, Cost of Equity, Pension Intensity Risk, Audit Quality, SFAS 158

JEL Classification: G32, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Houmes, Robert, Cost of Equity, Pension Intensity Risk and Audit Quality: An Empirical Examination of Their Relations (October 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
759,919
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies