Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Usage of Non-Financial Data and Information During the Assessment of the Risk of Material Misstatement for an Audit Engagement: A Field Study

Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 7, No. 1, 2018 Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2017

Abdelmoneim Awadallah

Cairo University

Haithm Mohamed El Said

Cairo University

Date Written: November 1, 2017

Abstract

Audit firms that fail to detect fraud or material misstatements in the financial statements of their audit clients may suffer substantial monetary penalties and negative publicity in the event of audit failure. The present study investigates auditors’ perception regarding the use of non-financial data and information to verify the validity of financial data and information reported by an audit client during an audit engagement. In addition, the current study considers the sources of information that auditors may depend on when searching for explanations for unusual trends in the financial statements of an audit client. The present study is based on a field study conducted in Egypt during the year 2014.

Using a questionnaire supplemented by in-depth interviews, the present study showed that auditors are likely to make moderate use of non-financial data and information when assessing the risk of material misstatements during an audit. However, it seems that auditors prefer to depend on financial data and information more than non-financial data and information when developing expectations about account balances during an audit engagement. Furthermore, the present study pointed out that auditors appear to rely more on inquiries of audit client personnel than other sources of information when searching for explanations for unexpected trends in the financial statements of an audit client.

Keywords: Analytical Procedures, Non-financial Data and Information, Risk of Material Misstatement, Egypt

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Awadallah, Abdelmoneim and El Said, Haithm Mohamed, Auditors’ Usage of Non-Financial Data and Information During the Assessment of the Risk of Material Misstatement for an Audit Engagement: A Field Study (November 1, 2017). Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 7, No. 1, 2018 Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3064962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 47 Posted: 1983
Analytical procedures. Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 56 Posted: 1988
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 99 Posted: 2002
B K Behn , R A Riley
Using nonfinancial information to predict financial performance: The case of the U.S. airline industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
370,049
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies