Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data

NBER Working Paper No. w24018

77 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017 Last revised: 16 Feb 2025

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2017

Abstract

This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.

Suggested Citation:

Gipper, Brandon and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data (November 2017). NBER Working Paper No. w24018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Division for CPA Firms SEC Practice Section: Peer Review Manual Posted: 1978
M Andrejczak
KPMG Charged Over Xerox Audit
CBS MarketWatch Posted: 2003-01-29
D Aobdia , R Petacchi
Consequences of Low-Quality Audits for Engagement Partners Posted: 2017
M Azizkhani , G S Monroe , G Shailer
Audit Partner Tenure and Cost of Equity Capital
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 2013
Load more
4 Citations
Edwige Cheynel , Frank Zhou
Auditor Tenure and Misreporting: Evidence from a Dynamic Oligopoly Game
64 Pages · Posted: 8 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 26 May 2023 · Downloads: 568
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aleksandra Zimmerman , Dereck Barr-Pulliam , Joon-Suk Lee , Miguel Minutti-Meza
Auditors’ Use of In-house Specialists
University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3695738, Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 68 Pages · Posted: 14 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 8 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 636
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kevin C.W. Chen , Tai-Yuan Chen , Weifang Han , Hongqi Yuan
Auditors Under Fire: The Association between Audit Errors and the Career Setbacks of Individual Auditors
61 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 301
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Huan Kuang , Huimin Li , Matthew Sherwood , Robert Lowell Whited
Mandatory Audit Partner Rotations and Audit Quality in the United States
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2020, Vol. 39, No. 3, 161-184 · 48 Pages · Posted: 28 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,629
RANK
12,550
4 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies