Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Pay Gap and Discrimination in Taiwanese Auditing Industry

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 11, No. 3, 2017, pp. 1-11

11 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2018

Min-Ning Lee

Asia-Pacific Institute of Creativity

Yi-Fang Yang

Chang Jung Christian University

Lee Wen Yang

Chaoyang University of Technology

Yahn-Shir Chen

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the salary differentials between male and female employees of audit firms in Taiwan. We employ the transcendental logarithmic (translog) revenue function to estimate the productivities of employees and then compare them with compensations of employees. Total samples are divided into national, regional and local audit firms in terms of market segmentation. This study confirms that gender salary gap exists in the auditing industry and compensations of male employees are higher than that of female ones. Specifically, male employees are over-compensated in the national firms but female employees are over-compensated in both regional and local audit firms. Consequently, this study argues that sex discrimination against female employees exists in the national firms but sex discrimination against male employees exists in the regional and local. With the brand new findings, this study contributes knowledge to the literature of gender and salary.

Keywords: Audit Firms, Market Segmentation, Gender Salary Differentials, Productivities, Sex Discrimination

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Min-Ning and Yang, Yi-Fang and Yang, Lee Wen and Chen, Yahn-Shir, Gender Pay Gap and Discrimination in Taiwanese Auditing Industry (2017). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 11, No. 3, 2017, pp. 1-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A A Arens , R J Elder , B Mark
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach
NJ Posted: 2012
F D Blau , M A Ferber
The Economics of Women, Men, and Work
NJ Posted: 1986
V Bröcheler , S Maijoor , A Van Witteloostuijn
Auditor Human Capital and Audit Firm Survival the Dutch Audit Industry in 1930-1992
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 627 - 646 Posted: 2004
L T Cao , P G Buchanan
The Gender Gap in Accounting: Salary Disparity among Management Accountants
Akron Business and Economic Review , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 34 - 43 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
RANK
640,442
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies