Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of team member proximity and assignment length on audit staff reliance on a supervisor's preferences

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Nov 2017 Last revised: 5 Apr 2023

Stephen Kuselias

Providence College

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Elaine Wang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

With advances in technology (e.g., secure cloud storage and video conferencing), audit firms have increasingly been using geographically distributed auditors to staff engagements to improve resource utilization. However, such benefits may come at a cost if geographically distributed teams underperform co-located teams. To explore factors that could influence the relative effectiveness of distributed and co-located teams, we conduct an experiment to examine how team member proximity (distributed versus co-located) and assignment length (temporary versus continuing) jointly affect auditor judgment when subordinate auditors are given client-favorable guidance from their supervisor. Relying on the impression management and persuasion literatures, we predict and find that distributed auditors are less influenced by their supervisor’s directional preferences than co-located auditors when they are on temporary assignments. As such, despite concerns about the effectiveness of distributed teams, we identify a setting in which it can be beneficial to utilize distributed auditors over co-located auditors. However, we also predict and find that distributed auditors tend to react more like co-located auditors when on continuing assignments. Further, we find that while distributed auditors on continuing assignment are more influenced by their supervisor’s directional guidance than distributed auditors on temporary assignment, the opposite is true of co-located auditors.

Keywords: Distributed Teams; Co-located Teams; Auditor Judgments; Directional Goals; Assignment Length; Impression Management

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Kuselias, Stephen and Agoglia, Christopher P. and Wang, Elaine (Ying), The effect of team member proximity and assignment length on audit staff reliance on a supervisor's preferences (February 1, 2022). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3072365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3072365
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,393
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies