Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ties that Bind: Knowledge-Seeking Networks and Auditor Job Performance

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017 Last revised: 27 Jan 2021

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Theresa Floyd

University of Montana - Department of Management and Marketing

Nicole Thorne Jenkins

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Scott Soltis

University of Kentucky - School of Management

Date Written: January 26, 2021

Abstract

The dissemination of knowledge in audit firms is a critical process that has gone relatively unexamined by researchers. Using social network analysis to quantify the knowledge-seeking networks in a Big 4 audit firm in the U.S., we examine the association between the types and patterns of knowledge-seeking ties and individual auditor performance. Our initial finding is that auditor job performance is negatively associated with the number of knowledge-seeking ties. Further, our analyses demonstrate that this negative association is being driven by explicit knowledge-seeking rather than tacit knowledge-seeking activities and is stronger for higher-ranked auditors. Thus, knowledge-seeking by auditors may come at a cost, particularly when that knowledge is codifiable and when the seeking is done by those at higher levels of the firm. In a post-hoc analysis, we find that tacit knowledge-seeking ties to managers can be beneficial for auditor performance, and tacit knowledge-seeking ties to senior managers and partners is sometimes detrimental. In sum, this suggests that who is seeking knowledge and who is being sought for knowledge are both important for performance. Our findings may assist researchers to better understand how auditors leverage their social connections to learn, which in turn may affect audit efficiency and effectiveness. Further, audit firms might benefit from better understanding the consequences of knowledge-seeking from different sources and use this understanding to make decisions that maximize desirable information flows.

Keywords: Social Networks, Knowledge-Seeking, Auditor Performance

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and Floyd, Theresa and Jenkins, Nicole Thorne and Soltis, Scott, The Ties that Bind: Knowledge-Seeking Networks and Auditor Job Performance (January 26, 2021). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
F Agneessens , R Wittek
Where do intra-organizational advice relations come from? The role of informal status and social capital in social exchange
Social Networks , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 345 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Almeida , B Kogut
Localization of knowledge and the mobility of engineers in regional networks
Management Science , volume 45 , p. 905 - 917 Posted: 1999
Crossref
L Argote , B Mcevily , &amp; R Reagans
Managing knowledge in organizations: An integrative framework and review of emerging themes
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 582 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R D Arvey , K R Murphy
Performance evaluation in work settings
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 49 , p. 141 - 168 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
436
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,733
RANK
152,784
6 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies