Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Premium for Audit Partners with Big 4 Experience

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017 Last revised: 17 Sep 2020

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 15, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates how non-Big 4 firm audit partners’ Big 4 experience is valued by the audit market. The Big 4 audit firms have differentiated themselves as nationally recognized firms for whose services companies are willing to pay a premium. It is unclear, however, whether this reputation follows individual auditors when they move to a non-Big 4 audit firm. We find that audit fees are higher for non-Big 4 audit partners with Big 4 experience with the fee premium ranging from 17 to 26 percent depending on the extent of experience when they are employed by small audit firms but find no evidence of a fee premium for Big 4 experience at the second-tier audit firms. Furthermore, in additional analyses, we do not find strong, consistent evidence that audit quality is higher for clients of non-Big 4 audit partners with Big 4 experience than their counterparts without Big 4 experience.


Keywords: auditor reputation, audit quality, audit fees, non-Big 4, Big 4 experience, audit partners

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Zimmerman, Aleksandra and Bills, Kenneth L. and Causholli, Monika, The Market Premium for Audit Partners with Big 4 Experience (September 15, 2020). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J R Francis , D Philbrick , K Schipper
Shareholder litigation and corporate disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 164 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J R Francis , K Reichelt , D Wang
The pricing of national and city-specific reputations for industry expertise in the U.S. audit market
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 136 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ghosh , S Lustgarten
Pricing of initial audit engagements by large and small audit firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 333 - 368 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Gipper , L Hail , C Leuz
On the economics of audit partner tenure and rotation: Evidence from PCAOB data. Working paper Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,660
RANK
161,215
5 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies