Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network Analysis of Audit Partner Rotation

51 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2017 Last revised: 20 Mar 2021

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Lin Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE); The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 15, 2018

Abstract

Although mandatory audit partner rotation has become prevalent worldwide, prior empirical research seldom considers how the successor partners are identified and the economic consequences of different rotation strategies. We examine the importance of internal networks to the selection of successor partners and the underlying incentives in the selection process in China, which affords an opportune testing ground for analyzing our research questions. We find that candidate partners who are familiar with the incumbents—evident in prior teamwork experience—are more likely to be selected as successors. This phenomenon is more pronounced when the audit engagement is more complex, client-specific knowledge is not readily available to the succeeding partner, and the engagement is more attractive to the audit firm. These results are consistent with auditors’ incentive to facilitate information transfer and maintain client satisfaction after the transition. Reinforcing this interpretation, we find that successor–incumbent familiarity is associated with better post-rotation audit-reporting quality and less frequent client defections without undermining the quality of the audited financial statements. Enriching our understanding of the production of audit services in audit firms, our analysis contributes to the public policy discourse on partner rotation.

Keywords: Network; Audit partner rotation; Client retention; Information transfer

JEL Classification: M42; D85; M48

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Lin and Wang, Lin and Wu, Donghui, Network Analysis of Audit Partner Rotation (November 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3087491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E I Altman , L Zhang , J Yen
Corporate financial distress diagnosis model and application in credit rating for listing firms in China
Frontiers of Computer Science in China , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 220 - 236 Posted: 2010
Daniel Aobdia
Why Shouldn't Higher IQ Audit Partners Deliver Better Audits?: A Discussion of Kallunki, Kallunki, Niemi and Nilsson
Pages: 24 Posted: 24 Aug 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E M Bamber , L S Bamber
Discussion of "Mandatory audit partner rotation, audit quality, and market perception: Evidence from Taiwan
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 402 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R D Banker , H Chang , R Cunningham
The public accounting industry production function
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 281 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
946
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,913
RANK
56,494
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies