Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Client Geographic Proximity and Audit Report Timeliness

Forthcoming at Advances in Accounting

Posted: 18 Dec 2017

Bei Dong

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Dahlia Robinson

University of South Florida

Le Emily Xu

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: December 2017

Abstract

While investors and regulators value the timely release of audited financial information, recent changes in the regulatory environment have increased the difficulty of providing timely audited financial information. In this paper we examine the association between auditor-client geographic proximity and external audit report delay, since identifying the factors that influence audit delay remains an important issue. We find strong evidence that audit reports are more timely for geographically proximate auditors and clients. Further, we show that the improvement in audit report timeliness is more pronounced for non-accelerated filers relative to accelerated filers. These results are robust to controls for potential self-selection bias.

Keywords: auditor-client geographic proximity, audit report timeliness, non-accelerated filers

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Bei and Robinson, Dahlia and Xu, Le Emily, Auditor-Client Geographic Proximity and Audit Report Timeliness (December 2017). Forthcoming at Advances in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3089835
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies