Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Attitudes in Auditing Research and Directions for Future Research

Handbook of Attitudes (2019), 2nd Edition, Albarracin, D., & Johnson, B.T. (Eds.) Routledge (Taylor & Francis Group)

Posted: 13 Aug 2018 Last revised: 21 Nov 2018

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: December 22, 2017

Abstract

Attitudes play an important role in determining how the audit will be conducted, and thus, directly impact audit quality. In particular, regulators require that auditors maintain an attitude of professional skepticism and independence of mind throughout the financial statement audit. Despite the heavy emphasis on auditors’ professional skepticism and independence of mind in professional standards, researchers studying auditor judgment and decision-making have only rarely examined auditors’ attitudes explicitly. In this book chapter, we draw from both the attitude literature in social psychology and the auditor judgment and decision-making literature to develop a conceptual framework that depicts important auditor attitudes along with their antecedents and consequential behaviors. One important antecedent that helps form attitudes is cognitive processing (i.e., critical thinking). We utilize the Heuristic-Systematic Model (HSM) to explain the nature of auditors’ vs. inspectors’ potentially different approaches to cognitive processing that may shed light on why they have different perceptions of what constitutes appropriate and sufficient evidence. Overall, the HSM demonstrates that engaging in both heuristic (e.g., intuitive) and systematic information processing can increase efficiency in achieving the goal of an objective evaluation of the evidence (i.e., objective attitude).

Keywords: auditor, attitudes, professional skepticism, independence, PCAOB, HSM

Suggested Citation:

Kadous, Kathryn and Nolder, Christine J. and Peecher, Mark E., The Role of the Attitudes in Auditing Research and Directions for Future Research (December 22, 2017). Handbook of Attitudes (2019), 2nd Edition, Albarracin, D., & Johnson, B.T. (Eds.) Routledge (Taylor & Francis Group), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092246
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,625
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies