Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Government-Experienced Auditors Reduce Audit Quality?

Managerial Auditing Journal, 34(6), 722-748, DOI: 10.1108/MAJ-12-2017-1756

Posted: 3 Jan 2018 Last revised: 23 Jun 2019

Murat Ocak

Trakya University, Uzunköprü School of Applied Sciences, Department of Management Information Systems

Gökberk Can

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: December 29, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of auditors with government experience on audit quality using 1,067 firm*year observations between 2008 and 2015 from Borsa İstanbul firms. We use three measures of audit quality to test the effect of auditors with government experience. Government-experienced auditors are handled under two different headings. First, whether auditors have government experience or not. Second, how many years did they serve in a government agency? Our main and Heckman estimation results indicate that auditors with government experience provide low qualified audit work in terms of audit report aggressiveness, audit report lag and discretionary accruals. Spending more years in a government agency leads to low qualified audit services in terms of audit report aggressiveness, audit report lag and discretionary accruals. Additionally, the results of the selection model indicate that family firms and domestic firms are more likely to work with government-experienced auditors.

Keywords: Government-Experienced Auditors, Overall Experience, Audit Quality, Aggressiveness, Reporting Lag, Discretionary Accruals, Auditor Characteristics, Turkey, Borsa İstanbul

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ocak, Murat and Can, Gökberk, Do Government-Experienced Auditors Reduce Audit Quality? (December 29, 2017). Managerial Auditing Journal, 34(6), 722-748, DOI: 10.1108/MAJ-12-2017-1756, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3094465
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies