Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Database Provides Free Access to Audit Research

Long, J. H., J. Mueller-Phillips, and C. Stefaniak. 2016. New Database Provides Free Access to Audit Research. The Journal of Accountancy. Vol. 222 (November):14.

Posted: 6 Jan 2018

James H. Long

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Jennifer M Mueller

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Chad M. Stefaniak

University of South Carolina

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

The Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association has developed the freely available Audit Research Summary (ARS) Database, which contains executive summaries of approximately 700 auditing research studies that have been published since 2005. The summaries are organized topically, key-word searchable, and written to facilitate quick and easy consumption, avoiding academic jargon and statistical analyses. The database is intended to disseminate research findings to key audit stakeholders in a timely manner and to foster a productive dialog about issues facing the profession, and allows professionals to connect directly with academic researchers, providing professionals with an opportunity to influence and inform the academic research agenda so that future research can address these issues.

Keywords: Audit Research Summary Database, ARS Database, Research Summaries, Audit Research Summaries

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Long, James H. and Mueller, Jennifer M and Stefaniak, Chad M., New Database Provides Free Access to Audit Research (November 1, 2016). Long, J. H., J. Mueller-Phillips, and C. Stefaniak. 2016. New Database Provides Free Access to Audit Research. The Journal of Accountancy. Vol. 222 (November):14. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095739
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies