Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Partners Rewarded for Selling Consulting Services to Audit and Non-Audit Clients?

36 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2018

Limei Che

OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University; Universityof South-Eastern Norway: School of Business; Peking University HSBC Business School

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

Tobias Svanström

Umeå University; Norwegian School of Management (BI)

Date Written: January 3, 2018

Abstract

Are audit partners rewarded for the revenues they generate by selling consulting services? The question is relevant because of the concern that audit firms have focused on consulting services that are more lucrative and have higher margins than auditing, and that the profit orientation may have impaired audit quality. Using novel data on the revenue streams that partners generate by selling consulting services to non-audit clients as well as to audit clients and their personal income, we are the first to shed light on this question. Specifically, we use partner level data and examine whether partners that generate higher revenues from consulting services to non-audit clients and to audit clients are better compensated while at the same time accounting for audit revenues obtained from audit clients and other control variables. A positive relation between partners' income and revenues from consulting indicate that audit firms prioritize consulting by rewarding partners for sales of consulting services. The results, based on 641 partner-year observations from Norwegian Big-5 firms, show that partners' compensation is positively associated with revenues from consulting services to non-audit clients, but not those to audit clients. We acknowledge that endogeneity is a major challenge for this type of studies, which suggests that results should be interpreted with caution.

Keywords: consulting, non-audit services, commercialism, professionalism, non-audit clients, partner compensation

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Che, Limei and Langli, John Christian and Svanström, Tobias, Are Audit Partners Rewarded for Selling Consulting Services to Audit and Non-Audit Clients? (January 3, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3095965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Arruñada
The provision of Non-Audit Services by Auditors: Let the market envolve and decide
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 1999
Crossref
L Barkess , R Simnett
The Pricing of Other Services by Auditors: Independence and Pricing Issues
Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , p. 91 - 108 Posted: 1994
Crossref
T Barnett , C Vaicys
The moderating effect of individuals' perceptions of ethical work climate on ethical judgments and behavioral intentions
Journal of business ethics , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 351 - 362 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
284,192
3 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies