Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Satisfaction and Work-Life Balance in Accounting Firms and Audit Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (AJPT), Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-18-029

60 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2018 Last revised: 13 Dec 2020

Joshua Khavis

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

The PCAOB’s audit-quality framework posits that superior inputs are essential for achieving high audit quality, and these inputs depend on the accounting firm’s ability to recruit and retain quality personnel. However, the link between these inputs and audit quality has gone largely unexplored due to a lack of data. We use employee-level reviews of accounting firm employers to examine some of these inputs, and test whether accounting firm’s internal characteristics explain employee satisfaction and audit quality. We provide descriptive evidence suggesting that “career opportunities,” “senior management,” and “culture and values” play a more important role in employees’ satisfaction than do “compensation and benefits” or “work-life balance.” While work-life balance is not among the most important factors that are associated with audit employees’ overall satisfaction, better work-life balance is nonetheless associated with higher audit quality. However, we do not find a significant association between audit-employees’ overall job satisfaction and audit quality.

Keywords: audit quality, audit quality indicators, audit quality framework, firm culture, employee satisfaction, work–life balance,work-life balance

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Khavis, Joshua and Krishnan, Jagan, Employee Satisfaction and Work-Life Balance in Accounting Firms and Audit Quality (October 26, 2020). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (AJPT), Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-18-029, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3095057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S P Brown , R A Peterson
Antecedents and consequences of salesperson job satisfaction: Meta-analysis and assessment of causal effects
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 77 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Buchheit , D W Dalton , N L Harp , C W Hollingsworth
A contemporary analysis of accounting professionals' work-life balance
Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 62 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R J Burke , E R Greenglass
Work-family conflict, spouse support, and nursing staff wellbeing during organizational restructuring
Journal of Occupational Health Psychology , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 327 - 336 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,629
RANK
12,425
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies