Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of Auditors' Judgments When Companies Release Earnings Before Audit Completion

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-6

52 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2018 Last revised: 27 Jan 2019

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Patrick E. Hopkins

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

Over two-thirds of United States public companies now announce annual earnings prior to (versus with, or after) audit completion. We expect this practice has potential to increase pressure in auditor/client negotiations over post-announcement audit adjustments. In a controlled experiment with audit partners and senior managers, we find, in the presence of today’s typical level of audit committee engagement, auditors are significantly more likely to accept aggressive financial reporting when earnings have been released (versus drafted). Further, we test and find this effect is mitigated with strong audit committee effectiveness (i.e., including ideal, but achievable, characteristics typically currently lacking in today’s average committees). Our process-model tests find the joint effects are mediated by auditors’ directional goals such that in the absence of strong audit committees, released earnings increases auditors’ directional goals, leading to lower judgment quality. Our study provides evidence on the importance of investing in high-quality audit committees in promoting high-quality financial reporting.

Keywords: Auditor Judgment; Audit Committees; Professional Identification; Earnings Announcements; Audit Completeness; Financial Reporting Quality

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Hopkins, Patrick E. and Schroeder, Joseph H., An Investigation of Auditors' Judgments When Companies Release Earnings Before Audit Completion (December 1, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3097241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3097241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M W Bagnoli , G Kross And S , Watts
The information in management's expected earnings report date: A day late, a penny short
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 1275 - 1296 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: an empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 12 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
E M M V Bamber , Iyer
Big 5 Auditors' Professional and Organizational Identification: Consistency or Conflict
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 21 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
634
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,009
RANK
96,129
18 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies