Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspectives from Mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK on the Potential Future Roles of China's Auditing Firms in the Global Profession.

57 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2018

Shuwen Deng

Shanghai Stock Exchange

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 5, 2017

Abstract

Some have predicted that the next ‘Big N’ international firm could be a Chinese CPA firm. Our primary research motivation has been to explore how far this view is shared and whether it is realistic to suppose that one or more Chinese firms, however large they may grow domestically, or even as ‘multinationals’ serving Chinese clients as they invest overseas, could now aim to occupy a position internationally alongside the current Big 4. ‘International’ means being accepted as the auditor of Chinese companies that obtain overseas listings and, at its fullest, also attracting overseas listed companies as clients either in China itself or by opening offices worldwide. We thereby also open up questions about how the ‘linked ecologies’ of international auditing firms and their roles and regulation (alongside other international professional service firms) may consequently be changed globally.

During the last 35 years or so the Chinese economy has been transformed from wholly state-planned to becoming today’s ‘socialist market economy with Chinese characteristics’ (its unique combination of market autonomy and techno-scientific administrative regulation under the Communist Party’s overall direction), and it is already the second largest economy worldwide. We explore the changing relationships between the international firms, as they have themselves developed a changing identity, and the Chinese government’s initiatives to create, develop and regulate an indigenous profession of accountants holding the CICPA qualification, in the context of the translation into China of international accounting and auditing standards and the continuing rapid growth in China’s own stock-markets and in its international trade and investment.

We have gained access to interview senior representatives of audit firms, regulatory bodies, universities and other organizations in mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK, to explore a range of informed views about the potential of the Chinese audit firms in the ‘2nd-tier’ international networks and among the larger ‘stand-alone’ firms to effectively rival the ‘Big 4’ in international reputation for quality; and about the hurdles they still face in overcoming that barrier. Our analysis problematizes the prevailing rhetorical stereotypes of ‘foreign’ Big 4 versus ‘indigenous’ firms. We thereby contribute new voices and alternative perspectives to the emerging literature on the globalization of large professional services firms.

Keywords: Chinese audit firms, Big4, IPSFs

JEL Classification: M42, O16, L84, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Shuwen and Macve, Richard H., Perspectives from Mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK on the Potential Future Roles of China's Auditing Firms in the Global Profession. (October 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
Li Yong
the then President of CICPA and also Vice Minister of MoF, was appointed a Trustee of the IFRS Foundation Posted: 2012-01
Yang Min
Wang Haoyu (of CSRC) and Prof. Huang Shizhong (Vice President and Professor, Xiamen National Accounting Institute) are members of the IFRS Advisory Council
Director General of the Accounting Regulatory Dept, MoF)
Yee
explores how there had originally been rival institutes, one sponsored by the Ministry of Finance (CICPA) and one (CICA) by the state audit organizations at national (China's National Audit Office [CNAO]) and provincial levels. They were unified under the initiative of Vice-Premier (later Premier) Zhu Rongji in 1995 (see Figure 1) Posted: 1995
Following Dr
Previously he was Director of the Accounting Regulatory Department of the MoF and in charge of Chinese accounting standard-setting Posted: 2017-08
Load more
1 Citations
Shuwen Deng , Richard H. Macve
How China Has Built an Accounting and Auditing Profession with Potential Global Impact
30 Pages · Posted: 23 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 620
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,443
RANK
481,321
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies