Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Reliable are the Hurtt Professional Skepticism Scale and the Rotter Interpersonal Trust Scale for Audit Experimental Research?

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

41 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2018 Last revised: 15 May 2018

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Katharine Patterson

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Kristian Rotaru

Department of Accounting, Monash Business School

Carla Wilkin

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 11, 2018

Abstract

This study uses an experimental context to compare the results obtained from two well accepted scales that have been designed to measure stable personality traits - the Hurtt Professional Skepticism Scale (HPSS) and the Rotter Interpersonal Trust Scale (RITS). The RITS was developed outside of accounting, whereas the HPSS was developed specifically for measuring professional skepticism in accounting. Recently, the RITS has been proposed by Quadackers, Groot and Wright (2014) as a substitute for the HPSS on the grounds that the inverse of the RITS is a more useful measure of skepticism for audit purposes as it measures the presumptive doubt form of skepticism (Nelson 2009) rather than the neutral form of skepticism measured by the HPSS and is more responsive to risk information. To test this assertion, we created three case scenarios involving three different auditing tasks adapted from current literature. For each scenario, we administered both scales, varying the order of case and scale administration to monitor the stability that would be expected of measures of stable traits. Our findings indicate that HPSS and RITS measures of skepticism and trust, respectively, vary by case presented and order of risk tolerance measurement. Skepticism, as measured per the HPSS is not affected by the order of HPSS administration; however, it is affected by case and order of risk tolerance measurement. Trust, as measured by the RITS, is affected by order (timing) of RITS administration. Specifically, measured Trust decreases when the scale is administered after cases are completed compared to the level obtained when Trust is measured before the case is completed. RITS is also marginally affected by case and order of risk tolerance measurement. This study contributes to our understanding of the HPSS and RITS, challenges the reliability of both scales as measures of stable personality traits, and supports order stability for the HPSS, but not the RITS. Both scales may have components that are sensitive to states rather than being pure measures of traits. Also, HPSS and RITS do not appear to be substitutes for one another, as the RITS does not behave as the inverse of the HPSS across cases and orders of administration. Lack of trust (the inverse of RITS) does not appear to be synonymous with skepticism as measured by the HPSS.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Rotter Interpersonal Trust Scale, Hurtt Professional Skepticism Scale, Order Effects

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Patterson, Katharine and Rotaru, Kristian and Wilkin, Carla, How Reliable are the Hurtt Professional Skepticism Scale and the Rotter Interpersonal Trust Scale for Audit Experimental Research? (May 11, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M Ardelt
Still Stable after All These Years? Personality Stability Theory Revisted
Social Psychology Quarterly , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 392 - 405 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Arruñada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory Rotation of Company Auditors: A Critical Examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R H Ashton , S S Kramer
Students As Surrogates in Behavioral Accounting Research: Some Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1980
Crossref
E S Barratt
Impulsiveness defined within a systems model of personality. Advances in personality assessment , volume 5 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
924
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,750
RANK
58,342
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Psychology Research Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies