Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How China Has Built an Accounting and Auditing Profession with Potential Global Impact

30 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2018

Shuwen Deng

Shanghai Stock Exchange

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 15, 2018

Abstract

While the auditing profession in the USA and UK has developed ‘from the bottom up’ over more than a century and a half, the Chinese profession has effectively been created ‘from the top down’ in just over 20 years. Based mainly on information obtained from interviews we have conducted in mainland China, in Hong Kong and in London—complementing published histories—we explore the major stages in this achievement and how far the growing reputation of China’s audit firms may now be expected to give them a global ranking, in the context of the continuing rapid growth of China’s economy and its stock markets, and the overseas expansion of its manufacturing and increasingly service-oriented base. We thereby contribute a range of experts’ views on the successes of the Chinese professional project and the challenges it faces for the future, as a complement to the literature on ‘Anglo-American’ international professional service firms.

Keywords: Chinese auditing profession, Chinese audit regulation, International professional services firms (IPSF)

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, N7, O16

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Shuwen and Macve, Richard H., How China Has Built an Accounting and Auditing Profession with Potential Global Impact (January 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3102253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
China's Financial System: Past, Present, and Future
China's Great Economic Transformation Posted: 2008
Crossref
P J Arnold
Disciplining domestic regulation: the World Trade Organization and the market for professional services. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 299 - 330 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Barrett , B Hinings
Service Innovation in Professional Service Firms: a Review and Future Research Directions , p. 238 - 254 Posted: 2015
L Brandt , D Ma , T Rawski
From Divergence to Convergence: Re-evaluating the History Behind China's Economic Boom
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 123 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,722
RANK
99,374
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies