Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Impact of Audit Market Concentration on Audit Fees through the Prism of Auditors’ Efficiency

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

51 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2018 Last revised: 12 Aug 2021

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Ling Chu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Date Written: August 10, 2021

Abstract

The extant auditing literature documents an inconsistent relationship between audit fees and market concentration. In this paper, we argue that the impact of market concentration on audit fees is auditor and auditee specific. Based on the fact that the audit services to an auditee are generally provided in their entirety by one auditor, we conjecture that the competition for an engagement is essentially based on costs (i.e., Bertrand competition) and that larger auditors are more efficient. Accordingly, we develop an audit fee determination framework that predicts that the disparity in sizes of the largest and the second-largest auditors result in differential audit fees charged by the largest auditor and other auditors. Since the concentration of an audit market is inherently associated with the size disparity in the market, our fee determination framework suggests that market concentration does not affect audit fees uniformly. Indeed, we document that market concentration increases the audit fees to auditees (in particular the large auditees) serviced by the largest auditor in a market and decreases the audit fees to all auditees serviced by other auditors. The results are consistent with our theory and explain the inconsistent empirical relationship between concentration and audit fees documented in the literature.

Keywords: Market concentration, audit market competition, auditor efficiency, auditor-auditee

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Ping and Ye, Minlei and Simunic, Dan A. and Chu, Ling, An Examination of the Impact of Audit Market Concentration on Audit Fees through the Prism of Auditors’ Efficiency (August 10, 2021). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
470,088
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies