Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Banks Audited by Specialists Engage in Less Real Activities Management? Evidence from Repurchase Agreements

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018

Neil L. Fargher

Australian National University (ANU)

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

John Ziyang Zhang

University of Liverpool

Date Written: January 3, 2018

Abstract

Prior research documents that non-financial firms resort to more real activities management when their ability to manage accruals is constrained by specialist auditors (e.g., Chi et al. 2011; Burnett et al. 2012). Within the context of banks’ real activities management through repurchase agreements (repos), we argue that repo management can increase litigation risk for auditors and, hence, specialist auditors will pay greater attention to repo management and will better constrain the extent of such real activities management than nonspecialists. We find that banks audited by specialists, including both Big 4 and non-Big 4 specialists, are associated with less downward repo deviation than banks audited by non-Big 4 nonspecialists. We also find that banks audited by the joint national and city-level specialists are associated with less downward repo deviation than banks audited by Big 4 nonspecialists.

Keywords: Auditor; Banks; Real Activities Management; Repo; Repurchase Agreements

JEL Classification: G21; G30; M42

Suggested Citation:

Fargher, Neil L. and Hou, Wenxuan and Zhang, John, Do Banks Audited by Specialists Engage in Less Real Activities Management? Evidence from Repurchase Agreements (January 3, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
V V Acharya
A theory of systemic risk and design of prudential bank regulation
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 224 - 255 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Allen , A Saunders
Bank window dressing: Theory and evidence
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 585 - 623 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A N Berger , D B Humphrey
The dominance of inefficiencies over scale and product mix economies in banking
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 148 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,367
RANK
511,635
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies