Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Regulation, Auditor Industry Expertise and Effects on Audit Pricing

33 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2018

Imene BenSlimene

University of Burgundy - Institute of Business Administration Dijon (IAE) - CREGO (EA 7317); University of Haute Alsace-CREGO (EA 7317), University of Bourgogne-Franche Comté

Date Written: January 17, 2018

Abstract

The diversity of regulations that govern statutory audit in European countries provides the opportunity to analyse how audit regulation affects audit fees. This study is the first to analyse empirically the joint effect of audit regulation and auditor expertise on audit fees for the institutional setting of 14 European countries by using a sample of 4,293 European firms for the period from 2003 to 2011. I analyse four attributes of audit regulation, namely terms for annual renewal of the mandate, nature of the auditors’ liability, whether the state requires joint audits and whether it imposes restrictions on the provision of non-audit services. The main results show that using an industry specialist auditor results in higher audit fees. Moreover, three regulatory attributes—auditor liability, annual renewal of the mandate and joint audit—play a significant role in determining audit fees. Fees are higher when the auditor’s mandate may be renewed or terminated each year, and when the auditor’s liability is tort. Mandatory joint audit has also a positive impact on audit fees.

Keywords: Audit fees, Audit regulation, Tenure and audit rotation, Auditors’ liability, Auditor Industry Expertise

Suggested Citation:

BenSlimene, Imene and BenSlimene, Imene, Audit Regulation, Auditor Industry Expertise and Effects on Audit Pricing (January 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3104191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3104191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L R Davis , D N Ricchiute , &amp; G Trompeter
Audit effort, audit fees, and the provision of nonaudit services to audit clients
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 150 Posted: 1993
L E Deangelo
Auditor Size and Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
L E Deangelo
Accounting Numbers as Market Valuation Substitutes: A Study of Management Buyouts of Public Shareholders
The Accounting Review , volume 61 , p. 400 - 420 Posted: 1986
M L Defond , K Raghunandan , K R Subramanyam
Do non-audit service fees impair auditor independence? Evidence from going concern audit opinions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1247 - 1274 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,344
RANK
518,107
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies