Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Communication Mode on Evidence Persuasiveness in Remote Auditor-Client Interactions

36 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2018 Last revised: 12 Mar 2021

Melissa Carlisle

Case Western Reserve University

J. Gregory Jenkins

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 20, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of communication mode on evidence persuasiveness during remote auditor-client interactions. Consistent with social presence theory, we predict and find that auditors assess management as more competent and an explanation as more plausible and more persuasive when received in a video format compared to email, particularly when the client is identified as “having little training and experience.” This finding suggests that the higher social presence of a neutral video communication may cause auditors to evaluate management more positively. These findings highlight the need for auditors to maintain professional skepticism during video interactions and when interacting with client personnel who are known to have limited training and experience because auditors may overrely on evidence obtained during these interactions. This study is the first of which we are aware to examine auditors’ assessments of client competence and evidence persuasiveness between video versus email communications with the client.

Keywords: Communication mode, client competence, evidence persuasiveness, client inquiry, remote working

Suggested Citation:

Carlisle, Melissa and Jenkins, J. Gregory, The Effect of Communication Mode on Evidence Persuasiveness in Remote Auditor-Client Interactions (September 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105452 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3105452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
AICPA). 2012a. AU-C 315, Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Available
Aicpa 2012b Au-C 240
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Available at
Crossref
Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained Available at
Audit Evidence Available
U Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The effects of source-competence information and its timing on auditors performance of analytical procedures
Auditing-A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 148 Posted: 1994
Load more
5 Citations
Jeremy Vinson , Byron Pike , Lawrence Chui
Auditor Inquiry: The Influence of Client Message Framing on Auditors’ Judgment
37 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 201
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maja Kljajić , Vule Mizdraković , Blaženka Hadrović-Zekić
Internal audit in the COVID-19 environment: Key aspects and perspectives of remote auditing
The European Journal of Applied Economics , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 30 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Marc Eulerich , Martin Wagener , David A. Wood
Evidence on Internal Audit Quality from Transitioning to Remote Audits because of COVID-19
Journal of Information Systems , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 219 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Aaron Saiewitz
Email versus In-Person Audit Inquiry: Recent Research and Additional Survey Data
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. A36 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,020
RANK
186,369
5 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies