Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Inquiry: The Influence of Client Message Framing on Auditors’ Judgment

37 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2018

Jeremy Vinson

Clemson University

Byron Pike

Minnesota State University, Mankato

Lawrence Chui

University of St. Thomas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 18, 2017

Abstract

Audit inquiry is the most predominate procedure used by financial statement auditors to gather audit evidence. Inquiry, relative to other audit procedures, is subject to manipulation from client personnel in that an explanation can be framed either positively or negatively. We utilize psychology theory on attribute framing and belief-adjustment to examine the influence of message framing by the client during audit inquiry on auditor judgment. In an experiment, we manipulate the valence of the message frame at the beginning (positive or negative) and ending (positive or negative) of a simulated audit inquiry, while holding the message content constant. We find that elements of both theories impact auditors’ inquiry judgments and decisions. Supportive of attribute theory, we find auditors are subject to a confirmation bias when judging reasonableness and persuasiveness of the client’s explanation. Alternatively, we find auditors are subject to a recency bias when judging the likelihood of material misstatement in the account, which affects their evidence gathering choices and is supportive of belief adjustment. Overall, auditors did not incorporate all framing equally.

Keywords: audit inquiry, framing, confirmation bias, recency bias, audit judgment and decision-making

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Vinson, Jeremy and Pike, Byron and Chui, Lawrence, Auditor Inquiry: The Influence of Client Message Framing on Auditors’ Judgment (August 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
S Aghazadeh , J R Joe
How management's confidence influence auditors' testing. Working paper Posted: 2017
S S Ahlawat
Order effects and memory for evidence in individual versus group decision making in auditing
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 12 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 1999
Crossref
U Anderson , L Koonce
Explanation as a method for evaluating client suggested causes in analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 132 Posted: 1995
V Arnold , P Collier , S A Leech , S Sutton
The effect of experience on order and recency bias in decision making by professional accountants
Accounting and Finance , volume 40 , p. 107 - 132 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
RANK
345,859
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies