Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Audit Times for Each Position and the Audit Risk: Focusing on the Accounting Firm Type

Journal of International Trade & Commerce, Vol.13, No.6, pp.71-89

19 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2018

Tae-Hyoung Mun

Mokwon University

Date Written: December 22, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to analyze the decision factors of audit risk by using the audit times for each position announced in the audit. The sample of this study sets up a regression model that sets the audit times of each position classified as the dependent variable announced from FY2014 to FY2015 in DART, and as the independent variables and the control variables that can affect the audit risk. In the regression model, the audit time (log) of the registered accountant had the best explanation power. In the case that the audit time (log) of the registered CPA was used as the dependent variable, the audit time was found to significantly increase in the auditor designation company, the initial audit company, the company with high debt ratio, the company that received not the unqualified opinion either in this term or in the last term, and the company with a large natural log value of the total assets.

Keywords: Audit Profitability, Audit Risk, Audit Times

JEL Classification: M14, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mun, Tae-Hyoung, A Study on the Audit Times for Each Position and the Audit Risk: Focusing on the Accounting Firm Type (December 22, 2017). Journal of International Trade & Commerce, Vol.13, No.6, pp.71-89, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
G S Bae , Jae-Eun Lee , Joon-Hwa Rho , Seung-Uk Choi
Auditors' Differential Responses to Audit Risks Through Quality Control Review Hours
Korean Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 6 , p. 81 - 117 Posted: 2015
Kwan Choi , Won-Sun Baek
Auditor Types on Audit Quality: Focusing on the Audit Hour and Audit Fee , volume 23 , p. 49 - 75 Posted: 1998
J Francis , J Krishnan
Accounting Accruals and Auditor Reporting Conservatism
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 165 Posted: 1999
Crossref
W E Gist , R A Davison
An Exploratory Study of the Influence of Client Factors on Audit Time Budget Variances
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 18 , p. 102 - 116 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
627,303
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies