Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Critical Audit Matter Removal and Duration on Jurors’ Assessments of Auditor Negligence

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming. doi: 10.2308/ajpt-52319

Posted: 30 Jan 2018 Last revised: 16 Nov 2018

Jeremy Vinson

Clemson University

Jesse C. Robertson

University of North Texas

Cam Cockrell

Xavier University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

A primary concern facing the PCAOB's requirement of disclosing critical audit matters (CAMs) is increased auditor litigation risk. Evidence with Key Audit Matters from the U.K. indicates auditors may subsequently remove a CAM or continue to report the same CAM for several years. Therefore, we investigate the effects of CAM removal and duration on jurors' assessments of auditor negligence when there is a subsequent material misstatement due to fraud in the account related to the CAM. Using the Culpable Control Model, we predict jurors will assess higher auditor negligence when a CAM is removed than when a CAM is reported and when a CAM is reported for multiple years than for one year. Results of our first experiment, in which the CAM relates to a more complex account, highlight a quandary auditors could face in the years subsequent to reporting a CAM such that removal of a CAM that had been reported for multiple years increases auditor liability. Results of our second experiment, in which the CAM relates to a less complex account, provides limited support that CAM removal increases liability. Our results should be of interest to academics, practitioners, and regulators regarding legal implications of the new CAM standard.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Critical Audit Matters, Culpable Control Model, Jurors

JEL Classification: M40, M42, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Vinson, Jeremy and Robertson, Jesse C. and Cockrell, Cam, The Effects of Critical Audit Matter Removal and Duration on Jurors’ Assessments of Auditor Negligence (2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming. doi: 10.2308/ajpt-52319, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107107
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,354
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies