Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of PCAOB International Registration on Audit Quality and Audit Fees: Evidence from China

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 41 (4): 106947.

42 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2018 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Wuchun Chi

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Hamilton Elkins

University of Saskatchewan- Edwards School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Partha S. Mohapatra

California State University, Sacramento - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 28, 2018

Abstract

Despite the importance of registration with the PCAOB, there is surprisingly little academic research on the registration process and its impact on audit outcomes (Abernathy, Barnes and Stefaniak 2013). The PCAOB allows registration of audit firms from non-US countries. However, China and a few other countries do not allow the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit firms. We take advantage of this natural setting to investigate whether PCAOB-registered audit firms improve audit quality in the absence of inspections. We also examine whether PCAOB-registered audit firms charge an audit fee premium. We find that both audit quality and audit fees increase following PCAOB registration. Overall, our findings suggest that PCAOB registration has a positive impact on the quality of audits in China and that clients are willing to pay higher audit fees for audits by PCAOB-registered firms.

Keywords: PCAOB registration, PCAOB inspection, audit quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Wuchun and Elkins, Hamilton and Lobo, Gerald J. and Mohapatra, Partha S., The Impact of PCAOB International Registration on Audit Quality and Audit Fees: Evidence from China (January 28, 2018). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 41 (4): 106947., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3111973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3111973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from client firm reaction to adverse, GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB research: What have we learned?
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Gopal Krishnan , Yanru Yang , Zhongze Li
Do Blockades to PCAOB Inspections Suggest Lower Audit Quality? The Case of Chinese Companies Listed in the U.S.
56 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 267
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,316
RANK
115,944
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies