Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retail Shareholders and the Efficacy of Proxy Voting: Evidence from Auditor Ratification

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2018 Last revised: 11 Aug 2022

Cory A. Cassell

University of Arkansas

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

Date Written: August 8, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the influence and implications of retail shareholder participation in the proxy voting process. Using the shareholder vote on auditor ratification—a setting which facilitates the identification of an informed vote—we find that, on average, shareholder votes against auditor ratification are not associated with audit failures but are strongly associated with investment performance. We next consider how these relations vary with the composition of a company’s voting base and find consistent evidence that the auditor ratification vote becomes less informed (i.e., associated with factors that do not reflect auditor performance) as retail ownership increases. In subsequent tests, we find that the probability of auditor dismissal is increasing in the proportion of votes against auditor ratification, and that this relation does not vary significantly with the proportion of shares held by retail investors. Collectively, our results suggest that some auditors are dismissed for factors not directly related to auditor performance.

Keywords: proxy voting; retail shareholders; corporate governance; auditor ratification

JEL Classification: G34; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Cassell, Cory A. and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Shipman, Jonathan E., Retail Shareholders and the Efficacy of Proxy Voting: Evidence from Auditor Ratification (August 8, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3113807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3113807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2018
R Aggarwal , P A C Saffi , J Sturgess
The role of institutional investors in voting: Evidence from the securities lending market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 2309 - 2346 Posted: 2015
P Aghion , J V Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,359
RANK
110,264
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies