Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Assurance and Reporting Quality: Evidence From Restatements

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy

51 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2018 Last revised: 13 Aug 2020

Brian Ballou

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Po-Chang Chen

Miami University of Ohio - Richard T. Farmer School of Business Administration

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Dan L. Heitger

Miami University of Ohio

Date Written: January 31, 2018

Abstract

Previous research has shown that obtaining independent assurance of corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting has capital market benefits and that these benefits are amplified when accountants provide the assurance. Yet, little is known about whether and the manner in which CSR assurance improves the quality of CSR reporting, and whether accounting providers improve reporting quality to a greater extent than non-accounting providers. This study uses the unique setting of CSR restatements to examine these issues. We present theoretical and empirical evidence supporting a competitive advantage of using accounting firms as assurance providers as they not only identify inaccuracies in previous reports earlier than non-accounting providers, but also prevent future reporting inaccuracies. CSR assurance, from either type of provider, also leads to improved reporting definitions, scopes, and methodologies that require restatements for comparability. Results also indicate that CSR reporting frameworks (e.g., GRI) are not a substitute for obtaining CSR assurance as the latter has incremental benefits over GRI usage in terms of identifying errors and reporting improvements. These results have implications for public policy makers considering the merits of mandating CSR assurance and for organizations assessing the relative benefits and costs of preparing GRI-based CSR reports, obtaining CSR assurance, and choosing between accounting vs. non-accounting CSR assurance providers.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Restatements, Assurance, Reporting Frameworks

Suggested Citation:

Ballou, Brian J. and Chen, Po-Chang and Grenier, Jonathan H. and Heitger, Dan L., CSR Assurance and Reporting Quality: Evidence From Restatements (January 31, 2018). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3114256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C Adams , R Evans
Accountability, completeness, credibility and the audit expectations gap
J. Corp. Citizensh , volume 14 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes , I I
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance
Account. Organ. Soc , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Ball , D L Owen , R H Gray
External transparency or internal capture? The role of third party statements in adding value to corporate environmental reports
Bus. Strateg. Environ , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Ballou , R J Casey , J H Grenier , D L Heitger
Exploring the strategic integration of sustainability initiatives: Opportunities for accounting research
Account. Horiz , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,616
RANK
185,789
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies