Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Much of a Good Thing? Evidence of a Nonlinear Association Between Non-Audit Services and Audit Quality

39 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2018 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Andy Imdieke

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 6, 2022

Abstract

The effect of providing clients non-audit services (NAS) on audit quality remains relevant and important to regulators. Prior academic studies provide evidence of either positive or negative effects of NAS on audit quality via knowledge spillover and independence or distraction. This study complements existing research by examining whether the association between NAS and audit quality varies over the range of NAS provisions by the audit offices. Specifically, we predict and find a nonlinear (i.e., concave) association between office NAS provision and audit quality. Additional analysis reveals that the result is primarily related to auditor-provided tax services (APTS) rather than non-tax NAS. Overall, this study contributes to our understanding of the effect of NAS provision on audit quality over the distribution of NAS provision

Keywords: auditor independence; knowledge spillover; audit quality; non-audit services; auditor-provided tax services

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik and Imdieke, Andrew and Omer, Thomas C., Too Much of a Good Thing? Evidence of a Nonlinear Association Between Non-Audit Services and Audit Quality (June 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3114395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3114395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
E Beardsley , A Imdieke , T Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2021
E Beardsley , D Lassila , T Omer
How do audit offices respond to audit fee pressure? Evidence of increased focus on nonaudit services and their impact on audit quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 999 - 1027 Posted: 2019
Load more
9 Citations
Yuzhou Chen , Thomas C. Omer
Moving to Less Contaminated Audit Offices and the Likelihood of Misstatements
51 Pages · Posted: 30 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 3 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mariya Letdin , Cathryn M. Meegan , Miles A. Romney
The Parabolic Relationship of Tax Avoidance and Cost of Public Debt
Finance Research Letters , volume 69 , p. 106096 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Reiner Quick , Daniel Sánchez Toledano , Joaquín Sánchez Toledano
The impact of auditor-provided non-audit services on audit quality: A review of the archival literature
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 93 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Billy E. Brewster , Jonathan H. Grenier , David N. Herda , Mary E. Marshall
Big 4 Firms as Legal Service Providers: Implications for Audit Practice and Future Research Directions
Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 93 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,353
RANK
93,127
9 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies