Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On-Shelf Availability, Retail Performance, and External Audits: A Field Experiment

Production and Operations Management 25(5): 935-951. https://doi.org/10.1111/poms.12519

33 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2018 Last revised: 8 Nov 2024

Howard Hao-Chun Chuang

National Chengchi University - College of Commerce

Rogelio Oliva

Mays Business School, Texas A&M University

Sheng Liu

Sabre Inc.

Date Written: December 15, 2016

Abstract

A potential answer to retailer’s shelf out-of-stocks (OOS), where the item is in store but customers cannot find it, is to employ third-party service providers to execute audits and corrections. However, given the nontrivial cost of executing external audits, it is still necessary to assess whether external audits are capable of reducing shelf-OOS, whether they can be performed in an economical way, and whether the benefits from the audits translate into higher sales. In an effort to address these questions, we partnered with a product manufacturer and a retail service provider and conducted a field experiment in a national retailer’s store set. We used transactional data to detect abnormal operations and respond to possible shelf-OOS by sending auditors to correct empty shelves and incorrect inventory records. At the conclusion of the experiment, we found that SKUs in the treatment group were less likely to have shelf-OOS and inventory record inaccuracies, and that our intervention had a positive effect on sales. Furthermore, we found that the external audit initiative is economically viable since these improvements required low auditing efforts after a transitional period, and in steady state the cost of running the program is a small fraction of the benefits it generates. We discuss the limitations of our study and the implications of our findings for researchers and practitioners.

Keywords: retail operations, shelf out-of-stock, inventory record inaccuracy, service triad, field experiment

Suggested Citation:

Chuang, Howard Hao-Chun and Oliva, Rogelio and Liu, Sheng, On-Shelf Availability, Retail Performance, and External Audits: A Field Experiment (December 15, 2016). Production and Operations Management 25(5): 935-951. https://doi.org/10.1111/poms.12519, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3116669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Aastrup , H Kotzab
Forty years of out-of-stock research -and shelves are still empty. The International Review of Retail
Distribution and Consumer Research , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 164 Posted: 2010
N Agrawal , S A Smith
Estimating negative binomial demand for retail inventory management with unobservable lost sales
Naval Research Logistics , volume 43 , issue 6 , p. 839 - 861 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Agresti
An Introduction to Categorical Data Analysis Posted: 2007
E T Anderson , D Simester
A step-by-step guide to smart business experiments
Harvard Business Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 99 - 105 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
RANK
549,213
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies