Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improvement of Auditing Procedure Following the 2008 Financial Crisis

80 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2018

Sanad Abuharb

University of Hertfordshire

Date Written: August 21, 2017

Abstract

In 2007, the global financial crisis hit the market and led to the collapse of many financial institutions. The International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”) has responded to this crisis by reforming the auditing regulatory regime. In 2009, the IAASB revised the International Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Whether the changes to the ISAs are fit for purpose, however, remains unknown. In 2014, Tesco suffered a severe financial crisis, which was followed by significant changes by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in 2015 to propose auditor reporting reforms, with a focus on delivering more useful information to stakeholders, in particular, to the investors in the financial market. This research uses Tesco’s auditor report to examine and reflect on new changes in the audit report. This research then uses the FRC’s analysis of the new audit report, focusing on the audit risk and the audit scope of the new audit report, to discuss whether the changes in the audit report are fit for the purpose of avoiding future audit failures. This research concludes that the new audit report to be sufficiently satisfactory for companies and financial statement users, and examines and analyses the situation and the business status of the company in question. Recommendations have also been given to the auditors which they are related to their audit work and the auditing standards.

Keywords: Financial Crisis 2008, Auditing Standards, ISAs, IAS, Big Four Auditing Firms

Suggested Citation:

Abuharb, Sanad, Improvement of Auditing Procedure Following the 2008 Financial Crisis (August 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3116629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3116629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Abduvali Abdusalomovich Abdumavlonov
Corporate Governance Failures as a Reason for UK Banking Crisis
Pages: 33 Posted: 15 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ACCA (2010) ​ Practical auditing under clarified ISAs​
Audit under fire: a review of the post-financial crisis inquiries​
ACCA Posted: 2011
The new auditor's report​ Posted: 2016-08
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,626
RANK
114,604
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies