Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Ownership and the Auditor's Opinion: An Analysis in Private Subsidiaries

61 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Simona Rusanescu

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business, Department of Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

In a large sample of private Spanish subsidiaries, we observe a significantly greater incidence of modified audit reports in foreign than in local group subsidiaries. Results are consistent with foreign group subsidiaries having lower incentives to avoid receiving modified audit opinions (MAOs) because of their lower dependence on external financing. Additionally, our tests reveal that, of the two types of MAOs that are potentially avoidable, only opacity related MAOs are significantly more frequent in foreign than in local group subsidiaries. Curiously, despite that the literature documents a higher incidence of earnings management in foreign-owned private subsidiaries, the evidence of higher frequency of GAAP violation related MAOs in foreign group subsidiaries is weak. Our findings indicate that foreign shareholders do not improve financial reporting quality in the private setting, but are associated with more opaque companies where the auditors are prevented from doing their work. Additionally, results suggest that the cost-benefit relation of avoiding MAOs hinges on the underlying reason for modification.

Keywords: audit opinion, financial reporting quality, foreign ownership, private companies, subsidiaries

JEL Classification: F23, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and Rusanescu, Simona, Foreign Ownership and the Auditor's Opinion: An Analysis in Private Subsidiaries (February 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3116125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3116125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankrupcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
L Arnedo-Ajona , F Lizarraga-Dallo , S Sánchez-Alegría
Discretionary accruals and auditor behaviour in code-law contexts: An application to failing Spanish firms
European Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 641 - 666 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S L Tsui
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ľuboš Elexa , Michal Ištok , Lea Šlampiaková
DO LINKS TO TAX HAVENS AFFECT COMPANIES’ FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE? THE CASE OF SLOVAKIA
E+M Ekonomie a Management , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 60 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Nurhidayah Nurhidayah , Made Sudarma , Ali Djamhuri , Sari Atmini
Audit opinion research: overview and research agenda
Cogent Business & Management , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,585
RANK
538,270
2 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies