Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Quality Characteristics and Accounting Conservatism: An Empirical Study of the Listed Companies in Egypt

Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 11, Issue 2, 2014

10 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2018

Mohammed Soliman

Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport

Date Written: February 6, 2014

Abstract

The growing issues on the quality of audit and accounting conservatisms have long been regarded and seemed as a hot debated since both could impact on the capital market efficiency. This study aims to investigate the impact of the audit quality which is characterized by audit firm size, auditor specialization, and auditor tenure on accounting conservatisms in the financial reports of the more active 50 non-financial companies listed at Egyptian stock exchange across four years of period from 2007 to 2010. After controlling for company size, leverage and profitability, the results show that auditing quality characteristics (audit firm size, auditor specialization, and auditor tenure) have significant positive relation with accounting conservatism. On the other hand, no significant relationship is found between company size and accounting conservatism. Based on these results, the study provided recommendations to the interested parties.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Accounting Conservatism, Egyptian Companies

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Soliman, Mohammed Moustafa, Auditing Quality Characteristics and Accounting Conservatism: An Empirical Study of the Listed Companies in Egypt (February 6, 2014). Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 11, Issue 2, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Measuring accounting disclosure in a period of complex changes: the case of Egypt
Advances in International Accounting , volume 20 , p. 75 - 104 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanfordharris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of directors characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,596
RANK
188,584
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies