Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did PwC Lose Reputation Post Audit Failure at Satyam Computer Services? Evidence from the Indian Audit Market

International Journal of Accounting and Finance (IJAF), Vol. 5, No. 1, 2015

Posted: 26 Feb 2018

Partha S. Mohapatra

California State University, Sacramento - Department of Accounting

Anup Nandialath

University of Wisconsin - La Crosse - Department of Management

Allan Graham

American University of Sharjah

Date Written: August 1, 2015

Abstract

Safeguarding reputation is one major incentive for large auditors to maintain high audit quality. We investigate the phenomenon of reputation by studying the impact of an audit failure on the reputation of a large audit firm in India. Specifically, we analyze the events surrounding the high profile audit failure of Satyam Computer Services and its resultant impact on the audit practice of Price Waterhouse Coopers (PwC) and its affiliates in India. The results of our analysis indicate that following the audit failure there was a high propensity for clients of PwC firms to switch to other firms. We interpret this behavior as indicative of a loss of reputation for PwC due to the Satyam audit failure.

Keywords: reputation effect, Big 4, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Mohapatra, Partha S. and Nandialath, Anup and Graham, Allan, Did PwC Lose Reputation Post Audit Failure at Satyam Computer Services? Evidence from the Indian Audit Market (August 1, 2015). International Journal of Accounting and Finance (IJAF), Vol. 5, No. 1, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3119186
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies