Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Firm Association Membership and Small Audit Firm Growth

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3120493

Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

K. Kelli Saunders

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 2021

Abstract

In this study, we explore a topic of primary concern to small audit firms – attracting public audit clients. A potential avenue available to small audit firms to enhance their visibility and legitimacy among potential public audit clients is to join an association of accounting firms (ACAP 2008; GAO 2008). We examine whether small audit firms with accounting association membership have greater public clientele growth than their peer audit firms without association membership. We find that membership in accounting associations is positively associated with public clientele growth as measured by number of clients and revenues audited. We find that this growth is impacted by both gaining new entrants to the audit market and winning over clients from competitors. Further, we find that the reputation of an association positively affects the clientele growth seen by member firms. In additional analyses, we also find some evidence of private client growth of association members using LexisNexis® Company Dossier data.

Keywords: associations, networks, small audit firms, clientele growth, legitimacy

JEL Classification: L22, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Akamah, Herita T. and Bills, Kenneth L. and Saunders, K. Kelli, Accounting Firm Association Membership and Small Audit Firm Growth (December 2021). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3120493, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3120493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3120493
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,569
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies