Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Impact of the New Auditor's Report

34 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018

Hong (Alice) Li

University of Auckland

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

David Lau

University of Auckland

Date Written: February 8, 2018

Abstract

Changes to the auditor’s report have been proposed and issued internationally to provide more relevant information to users and enhance the perceived value of financial statement audits. This study investigates the impact of audit reporting changes on audit quality and audit fees in the New Zealand context. The new and revised audit reporting standards became effective for listed company financial statement audits in New Zealand on or after 15th December 2016. Our evidence suggests they were followed by an improvement in audit quality as proxied by a reduction in absolute abnormal accruals upon the adoption of the new audit reporting requirements. There was also a significant increase in audit fees. Although the new auditor reporting requirements are associated with improvements in audit quality, such benefit does not come without cost.

Keywords: Auditing, audit report, enhanced audit report, key audit matters, partner signature

JEL Classification: G18, G28, L38, L84, L89, M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Hong (Alice) and Hay, David and Lau, David, Assessing the Impact of the New Auditor's Report (February 8, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3120822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3120822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', Auditors', and Lenders' Understanding of the Message Conveyed by the Standard Audit Report on the Financial Statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Costs and benefits of reporting Key Audit Matters in the audit report: The French experience Posted: 2014
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary accounting research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,082
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,262
RANK
46,834
27 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies