Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It Security Auditing: A Performance Evaluation Decision Model

H.S.B. Herath, T.C. Herath / Decision Support Systems 57 (2014) 54–63

Posted: 26 Feb 2018

Hemantha Herath

Brock University

Tejaswini Herath

Brock University - Department of Finance, Operations and Information Systems (FOIS)

Date Written: February 14, 2018

Abstract

Compliance with ever-increasing privacy laws, accounting and banking regulations, and standards is a top priority for most organizations. Information security and systems audits for assessing the effectiveness of IT controls are important for proving compliance. Information security and systems audits, however, are not mandatory to all organizations.

Given the various costs, including opportunity costs, the problem of deciding when to undertake a security audit and the design of managerial incentives becomes an important part of an organization's control process. In view of these considerations, this paper develops an IT security performance evaluation decision model for whether or not to conduct an IT security audit. A Bayesian extension investigates the impact of new information regarding the security environment on the decision. Since security managers may act in an opportunistic manner, the model also incorporates agency costs to determine the incentive payments for managers to conduct an audit. Cases in which the agency model suggests that it is optimal not to conduct an IT security audit are also discussed.

Keywords: Auditing, Information Security, Assurance

JEL Classification: M15, M1

Suggested Citation:

Herath, Hemantha and Herath, Tejaswini, It Security Auditing: A Performance Evaluation Decision Model (February 14, 2018). H.S.B. Herath, T.C. Herath / Decision Support Systems 57 (2014) 54–63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3123862
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
796
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies