Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do auditors respond to competition? Evidence from the bidding process

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 73, No. 1, 2022

70 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2018 Last revised: 28 Dec 2021

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Antonis Kartapanis

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

Prior research provides mixed evidence about whether competition among auditors impairs or improves audit quality. An impediment to this stream of research is the inability of researchers to observe the audit engagement bidding process. We develop a method of detecting bidding by applying a machine learning algorithm to non-incumbent (i.e., competitor) auditor views of public companies’ SEC filings. We validate our method using a proprietary sample where all instances of bidding are known. We then examine the associations between bidding, audit quality, and audit pricing. Contrary to concerns that competitive pressure may cause auditors to compromise their independence, we find that incumbent auditors perform higher quality audits during bidding years. This improvement in audit quality occurs regardless of whether the bidding ultimately results in an auditor change and persists for several years when the incumbent auditor wins reappointment. We also find that bidding is associated with modest audit fee concessions.

Keywords: auditor competition, audit market concentration, audit quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Hallman, Nicholas and Kartapanis, Antonis and Schmidt, Jaime J., How do auditors respond to competition? Evidence from the bidding process (November 30, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 73, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3124722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3124722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
S P Bandyopadhyay , J L Kao
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of Treasury
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession , volume 21 , p. 529 - 562 Posted: 2004
A Barua , C Lennox , A Raghunandan
Are audit fees discounted in initial year audit engagements?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 Posted: 2020
M J Beck , J L Gunn , N Hallman
The geographic decentralization of audit firms and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 Posted: 2019
M J Beck , E G Mauldin
Who's really in charge? Audit committee versus CFO power and audit fees
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 2057 - 2085 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Joanne Horton , Gilad Livne , Angela Pettinicchio
Empirical Evidence on Audit Quality under a Dual Mandatory Auditor Rotation Rule
European Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,935
RANK
114,604
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies