Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality Determinants: Evidence from Quoted Health Care Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, 7(4), 216-231

16 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2018

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Moses Nnoruga Okeke

Independent

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 18, 2018

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the determinants of audit quality with a focus on healthcare firms listed on the floor of Nigeria Stock Exchange from 2010-2016. This study made use of secondary data obtained from fact books, annual reports and account of selected healthcare firms under study. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation, Ordinary Least Square (OLS) and Granger causality test with the aid of E-view 9.0. The result of this study revealed that there is a positive and statistically significant relationship between audit independence, audit tenure, audit firm size and audit quality of healthcare firms listed on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange at 5% level of significance. The study recommended among others that Audit firms should ensure that their staff are independent as this is likely to enhance audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Report, Audit Quality, Audit Tenure

JEL Classification: M17, M41, M46

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Okeke, Moses Nnoruga and Obi, Juliet, Audit Quality Determinants: Evidence from Quoted Health Care Firms in Nigeria (February 18, 2018). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, 7(4), 216-231, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3125633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
M F C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH International Journal of Business and Management Science , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
S B Adeyemi , O Okpala , E L Dabor
Factors affecting audit quality in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 20 , p. 198 - 209 Posted: 2012
N N Amahalu , M F C Abiahu , J C Obi
Comparative analysis of computerised accounting system and manual accounting system of quoted microfinance banks in Nigeria
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 30 - 43 Posted: 2017
S B Adeyemi , T O Fagbemi
Audit quality, corporate governance and firm characteristics in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mohammad K Shbeilat
International Standard on Auditing No. 260 and Audit Quality Evidence from Jordan
15 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2022 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,706
RANK
86,861
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies