Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating the Influence of Motivated Reasoning on Auditor Judgment

Posted: 6 Mar 2018 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 10, 2020

Abstract

Auditing standards require auditors to be objective in their judgment. However, certain incentives inherent in the auditing environment motivate auditors to prefer audit conclusions that align with their incentives over the ones that are better supported by evidence, a biased cognitive process known as motivated reasoning. Motivated reasoning undermines audit quality and is prevalent in practice. Evidence on how to mitigate the impact of motivated reasoning is lacking. I predict and find that making auditors’ intrinsic motivation for their work salient prompts auditors to consider more evidence that contradicts their incentive-preferred conclusion, leading to audit judgment that is less influenced by their incentives. The results highlight that focusing auditors on the intrinsic aspects and the process of a task is a promising means of counteracting the impact of motivated reasoning on audit quality, a challenging issue that has concerned regulators, practitioners, and academics.

Keywords: motivated reasoning; intrinsic motivation; information processing; auditor incentive; audit judgment

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Yuepin, Mitigating the Influence of Motivated Reasoning on Auditor Judgment (April 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3126368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3126368
 Not Available for Download
0 References
6 Citations
Lori Shefchik Bhaskar , Patrick E. Hopkins , Joseph H. Schroeder
An Investigation of Auditors' Judgments When Companies Release Earnings Before Audit Completion
Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-6 · 52 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2018 · Last revised: 27 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 634
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kathryn Kadous , Chad A. Proell , Jay Rich , Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou
It Goes without Saying: The Effects of Intrinsic Motivational Orientation, Leadership Emphasis of Intrinsic Goals, and Audit Issue Ambiguity on Speaking Up
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 2113 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Soon-Yeow Phang , Neil L. Fargher
Auditors' Evaluation of Subsequent Events: The Effects of Prior Commitment and Type of Accountability
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 167 Posted: 2019
Crossref
LORI SHEFCHIK BHASKAR , PATRICK E. HOPKINS , JOSEPH H. SCHROEDER
An Investigation of Auditors’ Judgments When Companies Release Earnings Before Audit Completion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 355 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies