Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Standards and the Accountability of the European Court of Auditors (ECA)

Utrecht Law Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, p. 1-17, 2018

17 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2018

Alex Brenninkmeijer

Utrecht University

Gaston Moonen

European Court of Auditors

Raphael Debets

European Court of Auditors

Branislav Hock

University of Portsmouth; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 9, 2018

Abstract

External auditors, both in the private and in the public sector, provide information to citizens and other stakeholders. The quality of this information – their auditing products – relies on ‘standards’. Audits are governed by accounting standards that largely concern ‘best practices’ designed by private accountants’ associations. This raises the question of how these standards fit into the regulatory framework in which an external public auditor operates, for example administrative law. So far, little research has been published on the role of standards setting out the principles underlying the European Court of Auditors’ (ECA) approach to audits and the procedures to be employed. By describing the structure of these standards and comparing them against the EU legal framework, we argue that the ECA, which is based on constitutional law and EU law, mainly follows the private-sector financial auditing standards. Private standards are designed outside EU law: How can auditing standards determined by the private sector be better aligned with administrative law to reflect the realities of public-sector compliance auditing in the framework of the ECA? For issues more exclusively covered by public-sector auditors, such as performance audits, public-sector auditors have developed standards and guidelines themselves. This paper aims to enhance our understanding of the institutional complementarity between global private regulation (i.e. accounting and auditing standards) and public regimes (such as general principles of good administration).

Keywords: audit, auditing, financial audit, compliance audit, standards, private and public sector auditors, informal law, accountability, European Court of Auditors, ECA, soft law, hard law, principles of good administration, audit principles, trust, credibility

Suggested Citation:

Brenninkmeijer, Alex and Moonen, Gaston and Debets, Raphael and Hock, Branislav and Hock, Branislav, Auditing Standards and the Accountability of the European Court of Auditors (ECA) (February 9, 2018). Utrecht Law Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, p. 1-17, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3128771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Informal International Lawmaking: Case Studies Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Besselink
Informal International Lawmaking: Elaboration and Implementation in the Netherlands
Informal International Lawmaking: Case Studies , p. 97 - 139 Posted: 2012
European Court of Auditors , volume 61 , issue 8 Posted: 2015-09
Crossref
G C A Shaffer &amp; M , Pollack
Hard vs. Soft Law: Alternatives, Complements, and Antagonists in International Governance Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,806
RANK
132,602
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies