Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Reputation Versus Auditor Capability: Their Effect on Audit Quality in Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 12 – 20 (2017)

9 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Astrid Rudyanto

Trisakti School of Management

Dipta Daniswari

Trisakti School of Management

Yuli Oktaviani

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: December 16, 2017

Abstract

Objective –The emergence of the ASEAN Single Window has triggered the need for higher audit quality in ASEAN countries, including Indonesia. A recent study conducted in Indonesia reveals that the reputation of auditing firms, as rated by clients and users, and auditor’s competence, as rated by the auditor, are the primary determinants of audit quality. The purpose of this study is to analyze whether the reputation or competence of an auditor affects audit quality, within manufacturing companies in Indonesia.

Methodology/Technique –This paper contributes to the creation of new measurements for auditor capability, by highlighting empirical evidence concerning the determinants of audit quality in Indonesia.

Findings – By using discretionary accrual as the inverse determinant of audit quality, the result show that financial statements audited by reputable auditing firms contain the same discretionary accruals as those audited by other firms. The results further demonstrate that auditor capability does not affect audit quality. Audit quality in Indonesia is therefore not determined by firm reputation or auditor capability. Hence, it is important to search for new determinants of audit quality.

Research Limitations/Implications – The limitation of this research is the low number of reputable audit firms and specialized auditors used by the sample firms, which lead to the exclusion of numerous controlled variables that may be integral when explaining audit quality. Future studies may use other sample firms and use additional controlled variables, to further explain audit quality.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Audit Quality, Discretionary Accrual, Audit Firm Reputation, Auditor Capability

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Rudyanto, Astrid and Daniswari, Dipta and Oktaviani, Yuli, Audit Firm Reputation Versus Auditor Capability: Their Effect on Audit Quality in Indonesia (December 16, 2017). Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 12 – 20 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Alhadab , I Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Ali , M R Aulia
Audit Firm Size, Auditor Industry Specialization and Audit Quality: An Empirical Study of Indonesian State-Owned Enterprises
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 22 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F Ball , J Tyler , P Wells
Is audit quality impacted by auditor relationships
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , p. 166 - 181 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,428
RANK
364,553
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies