Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Offshoring of Audit Work in Australia: Preliminary Insights from Literature and Interviews

16 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2018

Keith Duncan

Bond University - Accounting

Tim Hasso

Bond University - Bond Business School

Kim Kercher

Bond University - Bond Business School

Date Written: February 28, 2018

Abstract

Addressing a gap in research, this study explores the issue of offshoring audit work in Australia. We conduct a review of extant largely US-based literature and interviews with auditors at Australian firms to understand the extent of offshoring activity, the drivers of the decision to offshore audit work, the perceived benefits, the risks, and the impact upon audit quality. We find that offshoring is pervasive amongst large audit firms in Australia, whereas smaller audit firms are not engaging in the activity. The main drivers of offshoring audit work are cost savings and staff availability, stemming from the underlying pressure to maintain audit fees while continuing to deliver excellent service. While the quality of work performed offshore is perceived by some auditors to be of lower standard and those not offshoring, this potential risk is outweighed by the cost savings which then enables firms to increase the review of work performed offshore while still improving profitability.

Keywords: offshoring, outsourcing, audit

Suggested Citation:

Duncan, Keith R. and Hasso, Tim and Kercher, Kim, Offshoring of Audit Work in Australia: Preliminary Insights from Literature and Interviews (February 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3131523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3131523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
B Arel
The influence of judges' attitudes on liability assessments related to failed audits exhibiting significant audit team over-time or significant use of off-shore auditors
Advances in Accounting , volume 28 , p. 201 - 208 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J G Birnberg , M D Shields , S M Young
The case for multiple methods in empirical management accounting research (with an illustration from budget setting)
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 33 - 66 Posted: 1990
E W Chan , D V Moser
Client management's assessments of audit offshoring and their willingness to trade off audit quality Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,632
RANK
464,622
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies