Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Audit Programs to Improve Auditor Evidence Collection

49 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2018 Last revised: 25 Feb 2020

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: February 24, 2020

Abstract

Auditors experience difficulty auditing accounts on which it is difficult to identify in advance all the evidence necessary to perform an effective audit. These accounts are challenging because they commonly require auditors to collect additional, relevant evidence in response to new information received during evidence collection. We address this experimentally by examining whether changing the focus of audit programs from plan-focused (i.e., focused on the planned audit procedures) to goal-focused (i.e., focused on the task goal) improves auditors’ collection of relevant evidence that is not identifiable at audit program creation. We expect goal-focused auditors to remain open to more ways to achieve their goal. Consequently, we expect and find that goal-focused auditors collect more effective evidence than plan-focused auditors and follow-up more effectively on this evidence. This suggests that a goal-focused approach improves audit quality on tasks requiring auditors to flexibly respond to new information.

Keywords: audit programs, audit planning, evidence collection, goals

JEL Classification: M4, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Ricci, Michael, Using Audit Programs to Improve Auditor Evidence Collection (February 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3135265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3135265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Ashley A. Austin
Remembering Fraud in the Future: Investigating and Improving Auditors’ Attention to Fraud during Audit Testing
Pages: 48 Posted: 20 Sep 2017 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A A Austin , J S Hammersley , M A Ricci
Improving Auditors' Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Estimate Assumptions
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2020
Crossref
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,793
RANK
102,135
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies