Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Judgment in Foreign Country Engagements: The Role of Local Audit Office Leadership Climate and Auditor Client Advocacy Attitude

49 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2018 Last revised: 17 May 2022

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Robert E. Pinsker

Florida Atlantic University

Ferdy van Beest

Nyenrode Business University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

The international expansion of audit firms and their clients coupled with significant auditor labor mobility requires audit firms to coordinate their operations internationally, implying that auditors are often part of foreign audit engagements. Our purpose is to identify behavioral mechanisms affecting audit quality on these engagements. Specifically, we focus on two factors documented in the literature to impact auditor judgment: the leadership climate of the local audit office and the client advocacy attitudes of the individual auditor. We manipulate leadership climate as either a rules- or principles-oriented local audit office and measure client advocacy attitudes to investigate whether their interaction influences auditor judgment in an ambiguous task (a contingent liability disclosure recommendation). Utilizing a sample of experienced U.S. auditors, our results indicate that audit firms can induce greater cognitive effort and less aggressive judgments in foreign audit engagements if they include auditors whose accounting standards-related orientation do not match the local leadership climate. A supplemental experiment using experienced Dutch auditors produce similar results on less aggressive decision-making in a mismatched environment. Our aggregate findings make novel contributions to the literature on audit quality, organizational culture and climate, and client advocacy.

Keywords: Judgment and decision-making, Foreign engagement, Leadership climate, Client advocacy, rules-oriented, principles-oriented.

JEL Classification: M42, J10

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and Pinsker, Robert E. and Beest, Ferdy van, Auditor Judgment in Foreign Country Engagements: The Role of Local Audit Office Leadership Climate and Auditor Client Advocacy Attitude (April 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3136703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The accounting review , volume 86 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
L M Andiola , D H Downey , K D Westermann
Examining climate and culture in audit firms: Insights, practice implications, and future research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
H S Asay , R Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review Posted: 2022
E M Bamber , R J Ramsay , R M Tubbs
An examination of the descriptive validity of the belief-adjustment model and alternative attitudes to evidence in auditing
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , p. 249 - 268 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,355
RANK
149,087
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies