Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Value Higher Financial-Reporting Quality, and Can Expanded Audit Reports Unlock This Value?

Elliott, W.B., K. Fanning, and M.E. Peecher, Do Investors Value Higher Financial-Reporting Quality, and Can Expanded Audit Reports Unlock This Value?, The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, March 2020

55 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2018 Last revised: 5 Jul 2019

W. Brooke Elliott

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kirsten Fanning

DePaul University

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: May 29, 2019

Abstract

We present new theory and experimental findings indicating that investors ascribe value to firms that use higher financial-reporting quality (FRQ), controlling for the influence of higher FRQ on their estimates of these firms’ fundamental value. To guide our investigation, we draw on the cooperation literature in accounting, finance and psychology. We identify expanded audit reports, particularly auditor commentary, as a mechanism that credibly communicates whether a firm uses higher FRQ. Auditor commentary increases investors’ willingness to pay (WTP) more to own shares of a firm using higher FRQ than a competing firm using lower FRQ. We also provide process evidence that investors perceive higher FRQ as cooperative behavior by measuring their affective responses and cognitive beliefs, which mediate the influence of audit commentary on investors’ increased WTP for higher FRQ. A second experiment bolsters the link between investors’ affective and cognitive responses to a firm’s FRQ and perceived cooperative behavior. Overall, we contribute to the accounting literature by motivating a reinterpretation of studies on value relevance and mispricing. We also provide theory and evidence that there is greater value in expanded audit reports than previously understood, and this value likely has standard-setting and audit-pricing implications.

Keywords: Willingness to Pay, Fundamental Value, Audit Reports, Financial Reporting Quality

Suggested Citation:

Elliott, W. Brooke and Fanning, Kirsten and Peecher, Mark E., Do Investors Value Higher Financial-Reporting Quality, and Can Expanded Audit Reports Unlock This Value? (May 29, 2019). Elliott, W.B., K. Fanning, and M.E. Peecher, Do Investors Value Higher Financial-Reporting Quality, and Can Expanded Audit Reports Unlock This Value?, The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, March 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3136066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Predicting the performance of measures in a confirmatory factor analysis with a pretest assessment of their substantive validities
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 76 , issue 5 , p. 732 - 740 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Andreoni
Impure Altruism and Donations to Public Goods: A Theory of Warm-Glow Giving
The Economic Journal , volume 100 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
Crossref
C L Apicella , F W Marlowe , J H Fowler , N A Christakis
Social networks and cooperation in hunter-gatherer
Nature , issue 7382 , p. 497 - 501 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Arthur Andersen
Independent Auditor's Report for the Seattle Lighting Company Posted: 1921-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,588
RANK
58,852
22 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies