Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Process Mining of Event Logs: A Case Study Evaluating Internal Control Effectiveness

43 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2018

Tiffany Chiu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Mieke Julie Jans

Hasselt University; Maastricht University

Date Written: July 5, 2017

Abstract

Unlike traditional audit techniques, process mining of event logs provides a new aspect for auditing by tracking and capturing every single routing in the dataset. This paper aims at adopting process mining to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control using a real-life event log from a large European bank. Specifically, the evaluation is based on the full population of event logs and contains four analyses: (1) variant analysis that identifies acceptable and notable variants, (2) segregation of duty analysis that examines process instances and employees that violate segregation of duty controls, (3) personnel analysis that investigates employees who are involved in multiple potential control violations, and (4) timestamp analysis that detects time related issues such as the ones performed during the weekends and process instances that have lengthy process duration. The results from the case study indicate that process mining could assist auditors in identifying audit-relevant issues such as notable variants, activities performed during the weekends and personnel violating segregation of duty controls or involved in multiple violations..., etc. By examining the entire population of event logs, process mining enables auditors to detect potential risks, ineffective internal controls, and inefficient processes. Therefore, process mining of event logs generates a new type of audit evidence and could potentially revolutionize the traditional audit procedure.

Keywords: process mining; internal control; auditing; event logs; variants

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Tiffany and Jans, Mieke Julie, Process Mining of Event Logs: A Case Study Evaluating Internal Control Effectiveness (July 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3136043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Michael Gamini Alles , Mieke Julie Jans , Miklos A. Vasarhelyi
Process Mining: A New Research Methodology for AIS
CAAA Annual Conference 2011 Pages: 16 Posted: 24 Jan 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tiffany Chiu , Yunsen Wang , Miklos A. Vasarhelyi
A Framework of Applying Process Mining for Fraud Scheme Detection
Pages: 26 Posted: 30 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Issa , A Kogan
A predictive ordered logistic regression model as a tool for quality review of control risk assessments
Journal of Information Systems , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 229 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Jans
Internal fraud risk reduction by data mining and process mining: framework and case study Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Tiffany Chiu , Miklos Vasarhelyi , Abdulrahman Alrefai , Zhaokai Yan
Validating Process Mining: A Framework Integrating Auditor’s Risk Assessment
18 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 11 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 307
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
827
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,328
RANK
68,121
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies