Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big N Auditors and Audit Quality: New Evidence from Quasi-Experiments

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2018

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Isabel Yanyan Wang

Michigan State University

K. Philip Wang

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2018

Abstract

Whether Big N auditors provide higher quality audits than non-Big N auditors remains a debate. Big N acquisitions of non-Big N auditors provide a unique setting of exogenous shocks to the acquired non-Big N auditors’ client firms because they have to change auditors. We identify a sample of 331 treatment firms that switched to Big N auditors due to such Big N acquisitions. Using a difference-in-differences research design, we find that after these treatment firms switch to Big N auditors, they have improved audit quality as measured through signed and absolute discretionary accruals, and financial statement divergence scores. In contrast, we find that mergers or acquisitions among non-Big N auditors have little impact on the audit quality of their affected client firms. Further cross-sectional analyses suggest the improvement in audit quality is likely due to Big N auditors’ general competence rather than their industry-specific expertise. Finally, we find no significant stock market reactions in the treatment firms around the announcements of Big N acquisitions, indicating that the capital markets may not attach any premium to improved audit quality associated with hiring a Big N auditor.

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Wang, Isabel and Wang, Philip, Big N Auditors and Audit Quality: New Evidence from Quasi-Experiments (March 13, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3139642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement irregularities: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,582
RANK
21,377
11 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies