Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Search Periods As Signals of Engagement Risk: Effects on Auditor Choice and Audit Pricing

Advances in Accounting, Volume 37, Pages 15-29, June 2017

Posted: 21 Mar 2018

Vivek Mande

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Myungsoo Son

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

HakJoon Song

California State University, Dominguez Hills

Date Written: June 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of auditor search periods (time taken from the dismissal/resignation of the old auditor to the appointment of the new auditor) on successor auditor choice and audit fees. Using a sample of auditor changes during the period 2002–2012, we find that clients associated with long search periods are less likely to be accepted by Big N auditors. Our results also show that successor auditors charge their clients higher initial audit fees following lengthier searches. Finally, we document that delays in appointing successor auditors following resignations are associated with a significantly negative stock market response. Our results suggest that investors, regulators and academics should be heedful of lengthy auditor search periods in their evaluations of audit quality and client risks.

Keywords: Auditor Search Period, Audit Fees, Auditor Choice, Auditor Resignation, Auditor Dismissal, Market Reaction

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Mande, Vivek and Son, Myungsoo and Song, HakJoon, Auditor Search Periods As Signals of Engagement Risk: Effects on Auditor Choice and Audit Pricing (June 2017). Advances in Accounting, Volume 37, Pages 15-29, June 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140830
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Javad Izadi , Maurice Pratt , Mohammad Khorashadi , Pantea Foroudi , Maria Palazzo
Do Family Firms Pay More Attention to Audit Fees and Audit Choices than Non-Family Firms?
JFBS-D-23-00113 · 21 Pages · Posted: 7 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies