Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client-to-Auditor Employment Offers and Auditor Independence in the Post Sarbanes-Oxley Era

Journal of Accounting and Finance, 17 (7): pp. 194-212.

19 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018

Reginald Wilson

University of Southern Mississippi

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Ninety-six nonprofessional investors indicate that public accounting firms’ independence is perceived to be more impaired than non-public firms when the firm audits a client who has offered a job to a member of the audit team. Although perceptions of both firms’ objectivity improve as the strength of the independence safeguards increase, public company auditors are perceived as being more objective than non-public company auditors. These results bolster the argument for unified accounting standards. This study is the first to investigate nonprofessional investors’ perceptions of the issue, despite their prominence in the capital markets.

Keywords: Auditor Independence; Revolving Door Phenomenon; Nonprofessional Investors

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Reginald, Client-to-Auditor Employment Offers and Auditor Independence in the Post Sarbanes-Oxley Era (2017). Journal of Accounting and Finance, 17 (7): pp. 194-212., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Code of professional conduct and bylaws Posted: 2013-02-27
R Bartlett
Auditor independence: Five scenarios involving potential conflicts of interest
Research on Accounting Ethics , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 245 - 277 Posted: 1997
I Basioudis
Auditor's engagement risk and audit fees: The role of audit firm alumni
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 1393 - 1422 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson
Should you offer a job to your external auditor?
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 35 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
456,685
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies