Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substantial Doubt and the Entropy of Auditors’ Going Concern Opinions

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, 13:2, 2017

Posted: 17 Mar 2018

Kim Ittonen

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Per Tronnes

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Leon Wong

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Auditors need to establish a substantial doubt threshold in order to determine the type of audit report to issue, but substantial doubt is not defined in the auditing standards. Auditors are regularly criticized for having high thresholds, which results in too few going concern reports. We apply Shannon entropy from information theory as the criterion to evaluate the informational value of the audit report. Shannon entropy provides a measure of the expected information content associated with the realization of an uncertain event. First, we estimate the client’s probability of bankruptcy in our sample. Second, using the distribution of the probability of bankruptcy we calculate the entropy at each point of the probability of bankruptcy. We find that entropy is maximized at the 0.08 probability of bankruptcy.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Going Concern Modifications, Substantial Doubt, Shannon Entropy, Policy and Regulation

JEL Classification: G33, G38, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ittonen, Kim and Tronnes, Per and Wong, Leon, Substantial Doubt and the Entropy of Auditors’ Going Concern Opinions (2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, 13:2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3141068
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies