Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Going Concern Conclusions: Do Interim Reviews Provide an Early Warning?

43 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2018

Matthew Grosse

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting

Tom Scott

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: March 21, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether going concern conclusions in the interim (half-yearly) review (IGCC) provide investors with a timely source of useful information. Using the Australian setting, with mandatory interim assurance and disclosure, we find a strong negative market reaction surrounding the release of an IGCC. Additionally we show that auditors can signal both good and bad news regarding the firm in their interim review conclusion via changes in their judgement from the prior annual report audit opinion. Furthermore, despite containing different levels of assurance, there is no significant difference between the market reaction to IGCCs and going concern opinions received in the annual report audit (AGCO). The market reaction to the AGCO is also related to the prior interim review conclusion. Last, IGCCs are significant predictors of the following AGCO, beyond the previous annual report audit opinion. Overall, we conclude that going concern conclusions in interim financial statements provide an early warning to investors.

Keywords: Auditing, Going Concern Opinions, Interim Reviews, Interim Assurance

JEL Classification: G38, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Grosse, Matthew James and Scott, Tom, The Information Content of Going Concern Conclusions: Do Interim Reviews Provide an Early Warning? (March 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3146739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3146739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
330,157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies