Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data and Changes in Audit Technology: Contemplating a Research Agenda

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2018

George Salijeni

The University of Manchester; University of South Wales

Anna Samsonova-Taddei

The University of Manchester

Stuart Turley

University of Manchester - Faculty of Humanities - Manchester Business School - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 24, 2018

Abstract

This study explores the most recent episode in the evolution of audit technology, namely the incorporation of Big Data and Data Analytics (BDA) into audit firm approaches. Drawing on twenty-two interviews with individuals with significant experience in developing, implementing or assessing the impact of BDA in auditing, together with publicly available documents on BDA published within the audit field, the paper provides a holistic overview of BDA-related changes in audit practice. In particular, the paper focuses on three key aspects, namely: the impact of BDA on the nature of the relationship between auditors and their clients; the consequences of the technology for the conduct of audit engagements; and the common challenges associated with embedding BDA in the audit context. The study's empirical findings are then used to establish an agenda of areas suitable for further research on the topic. The study is one of the first empirical accounts providing a perspective on the rise of BDA in auditing.

Keywords: Auditing, Methodology, Data Analytics, Big Data

JEL Classification: M42, M1, O31, O33

Suggested Citation:

Salijeni, George and Salijeni, George and Samsonova-Taddei, Anna and Turley, Stuart, Big Data and Changes in Audit Technology: Contemplating a Research Agenda (March 24, 2018). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3148904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Abbott
The system of professions. The essay on the division of expert labour Posted: 1988
Big data audit dynamite
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2015
Big data: its power and perils
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2013-11
Reimagining auditing in a wired world
AICPA Posted: 2014
Load more
46 Citations
Ashley A. Austin , Tina Carpenter , Margaret H. Christ , Christy Nielson
The Data Analytics Journey: Interactions among Auditors, Managers, Regulation, and Technology
53 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 3 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 2,570
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Clough , Tommy Pan Fang , Balagopal Vissa , Andy Wu
Turning Lead into Gold: How do Entrepreneurs Mobilize Resources to Exploit Opportunities?
INSEAD Working Paper No. 2018/51/EFE · 74 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 1,049
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alex Coad , Stjepan Srhoj
Catching Gazelles with a Lasso: Big Data Techniques for the Prediction of High-Growth Firms
79 Pages · Posted: 12 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 290
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chrissann R. Ruehle
Investigating Ethical Considerations of Machine Learning Adoptions Within Organizations: A Systematic Literature Review
Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship (2019) · 27 Pages · Posted: 18 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 23 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 303
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,002
RANK
26,857
46 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies