Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Fair Value Measurement in Goodwill Impairment Test and Audit Fees

50 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2018 Last revised: 2 Jul 2019

Vincent Chen

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Edmund C. Keung

National University of Singapore (NUS), Business School

I-Min Lin

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Recent increases in the occurrence and magnitude of goodwill impairment charges highlight the increasing importance of the role of the auditor in goodwill accounting. This study examines the association between disclosures about the fair value measurement of goodwill and audit fees. We find that goodwill-related disclosures are positively related to audit fees, consistent with the idea that auditors increase their audit efforts to mitigate potential reputational and litigation losses (“audit risk effect”). Additionally, our results indicate that the information asymmetry and investor scrutiny moderate the association between goodwill-related disclosures and audit fees. One possible explanation is that auditors take goodwill-related disclosures as a signal of truthful goodwill accounting and this “signaling effect” partially offsets the “audit risk effect” of goodwill-related disclosures when information asymmetry or investor scrutiny is perceived as high.

Keywords: Goodwill, Fair Value, Fair Value Disclosure, Audit Fee, Audit Risk, Signaling.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, and M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Vincent and Keung, Edmund C. and Lin, I-Min, Disclosure of Fair Value Measurement in Goodwill Impairment Test and Audit Fees (June 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3150146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3150146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Other information in docuemnts containing audited financial statements Posted: 2010
M W Nelson , J Elliot , R Tarpley
Evidence from auditors about managers' and auditors' earnings management decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 175 - 202 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Z V Palmrose
Audit fees and auditor size: Further evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 110 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
286,507
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies