Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedent Factors on an Auditors’ Attitude Towards Conducting an Intended Qualified Audit

J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 8 – 21 (2017)

14 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Hendrian

Universitas Terbuka

Rini Dwiyani Hadiwidjaja

Universitas Terbuka

Eko Suwardi

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Date Written: December 21, 2017

Abstract

Objective – This study proposes to investigate an auditor’s works by usingthe model on the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA), with the inducement of intervention by a supervisor, that influences an auditor’s aattitudes. The study uses the TRA proposed by Fishben and Ajzen (1975) to predict and explain the behaviors of Indonesian auditors. The results reveal those factors influencing an auditor’s intention to provide qualified and reliable audit reports.

Methodology/Technique – The study focuses on audit implementation in the public sector, specifically the auditing of financial statements in regional administrations. The study examined a total of 53 governmental auditors from the Audit Board of the Indonesian Republic (BPK-RI). A Structural Equation Model (SEM) was used for the analysis.

Findings – The results of the study show that perceived audit risk, moral norms, and incentives have a positive and statistically significant impact on an auditor’s attitude when performing an audit. Meanwhile, intervention by a supervisor has a negative impact, and is not statistically significant towards the auditor’s attitude and behavior. This means that the auditor’s attitude and behavior implies that there is no intervention from their supervisor when performing an audit. Furthermore, an auditor’s attitude influences their intention to perform qualified and credible audits.

Novelty – This study infers that The Indonesian Republic Decree No. 188 of the Year 2014 regarding Personel Performance Benefit in the Audit Boards of Indonesia Republic (BPK-RI) is achieving its intended purpose.

Keywords: Auditor; Attitude; Risk Perception; Audit Reports

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

, Hendrian and Dwiyani Hadiwidjaja, Rini and Suwardi, Eko, Antecedent Factors on an Auditors’ Attitude Towards Conducting an Intended Qualified Audit (December 21, 2017). J. Fin. Bank. Review 2 (4) 8 – 21 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3157597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality, and Behavior Posted: 1988
The Theory of Planned Behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Process , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Nature and Operation of Attitudes
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 52 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
______2002) , A Constructing , Tpb Questionnaire
Conceptual and Methodological Considerations Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,095
RANK
872,691
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies