Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Accurately Predict Litigation and Reputation Consequences of Inaccurate Accounting Estimates?

38 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2018

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

Molly Mercer

DePaul University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 6, 2018

Abstract

To effectively manage audit risk, auditors must anticipate potential litigation and reputation consequences associated with inaccurate accounting estimates. Our paper examines whether auditors correctly anticipate these consequences. We provided 57 manager- and partner-level auditors with case facts from an auditor negligence lawsuit and asked them to predict the percent of juries that would return verdicts against the auditor. We compare auditors’ predictions to the actual verdicts we observed when we provided the same set of case facts to 805 mock jurors who deliberated as part of 141 juries. Auditors overestimated the percent of jurors and juries that returned negligence verdicts, especially when audit quality was higher. We also report process measures that help explain why auditors overestimated the negative consequences associated with inaccurate estimates. These measures show that auditors underestimated jurors’ willingness to attribute inaccurate estimates to situational factors and jurors’ perceptions of audit quality. Finally, we examine auditors’ predictions regarding the effect that news articles about the litigation would have on their reputation with the general public. Similar to our litigation results, auditors overestimated the negative impact the news articles have on both their own reputation and the reputation of auditors in general.

Keywords: Audit Litigation, Auditor Reputation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gimbar, Christine and Mercer, Molly, Do Auditors Accurately Predict Litigation and Reputation Consequences of Inaccurate Accounting Estimates? (April 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3158016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury Posted: 2008
D Anantharaman , J Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Anderson
Lawsuit over audits seeks $5.5B from PricewaterhouseCoopers Posted: 2016-08-09
B Arel , M M Jennings , K Pany , P M Reckers
Auditor liability: A comparison of judge and juror verdicts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 516 - 532 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
502,214
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies