Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Perceive Management Strategic Disclosure Behaviors? Evidence from Audit Risk and Voluntary Disclosure Tone

Posted: 19 Apr 2018

Kyungee Yoon

Independent

Yue Liu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick, Accounting & Information Systems, Students

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: April 10, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates whether auditors strategically perceive the tone of management qualitative earnings press releases and incorporate that information when determining audit fees. Using publicly issued management qualitative earnings press releases, we quantify abnormal tones that cannot be explained by concurrent, relevant financial indicators, and examine associations between abnormal tone and audit fees. Unexpectedly, we find that the abnormal tone of press releases is negatively associated with audit fees. We further find that the negative abnormal tone of earnings press releases is negatively associated with audit fees, whereas a positive abnormal tone is not associated with audit fees except in extreme cases. This shows that auditors selectively consider the tone of press releases to measure a client’s business risk, but they use it to measure management opportunistic disclosure behaviors only if the tone is extremely positive. In addition, auditors assign a lower weight to an abnormal tone in less credible earnings press releases, such as those from a client who issued earnings press releases with a highly abnormal positive tone in the previous year, even if current abnormal tone is not positive. These findings generally support the idea that auditors strategically perceive and use the tone of management forecasts when they evaluate audit risks.

Keywords: sentiment analysis, audit fee, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Yoon, Kyungee and Liu, Yue and Vasarhelyi, Miklos, Do Auditors Perceive Management Strategic Disclosure Behaviors? Evidence from Audit Risk and Voluntary Disclosure Tone (April 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3160140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies