Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Partners with Large Prestigious Audit Clients Earn Fee Premiums?

37 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018

Stuart Taylor

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: April 12, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines whether audit partners who audit large prestigious clients can earn audit fee premiums for doing so. As the largest clients are assumed to have insider knowledge of the quality of partners and the market power to select the partner of their choice, their choice will inform the market and other, smaller auditors as to who are the highest quality partners. Smaller clients can then pay a premium to secure the services of these partners to obtain the rewards of a higher quality audit. Empirical examination of a sample of 6,698 audits of Australian listed companies for the period 2009 – 12 shows that partners with large prestigious clients can earn significant fee premiums. This results still holds when the largest clients are omitted from the sample. Furthermore, partners who have an increase in the size and prestige of their clients can earn a fee premium.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Audit Pricing, Audit Partners

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Stuart, Do Partners with Large Prestigious Audit Clients Earn Fee Premiums? (April 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3161848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E Amir , J Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partner's risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Ayers , S K Kaplan
Review Partners' Reaction to Contact Partner Risk Judgments of Prospective Clients
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2003
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
The Importance of Audit Firm Characteristics and the Drivers of Auditor Change in UK Listed Companies
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 100 , p. 227 - 239 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,019
RANK
467,335
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies