Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unintended Consequences of Big 4 Auditor Office-Level Industry Specialization

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Performance Evaluation. Vol. 14, Nos. 2/3, 254-289

Posted: 7 May 2018

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

Rachana Kalelkar

University of Houston - Victoria

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The Big 4 audit firms currently dominate the US audit market. We investigate whether the extent of a Big 4 local office’s dependence on industry specialist clients impacts audit effort/earnings quality for the office’s specialist as well as non-specialist clients. Our findings suggest that greater dependence on specialist clients is associated with higher audit effort/earnings quality for specialist clients but also with lower audit effort/earnings quality for the office’s non-specialist clients. Our results hold when we propensity-match specialist and non-specialist clients to control for client characteristics as a possible confounding explanation. Our study is important, because it: 1) contributes to prior research that is largely silent on whether cross-sectional variations in reputation for industry-expertise are associated with variations in audit quality (DeFond and Zhang, 2014); 2) suggests that, it would be appropriate for PCAOB inspectors to focus on non-specialist clients at audit offices with greater dependence on specialist clients as an area representing higher risk of lower audit effort/quality.

Keywords: Big 4; industry specialization; non-specialist clients; PCAOB risk-based inspections; audit effort; earnings quality

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Kalelkar, Rachana and Raman, K. K., Unintended Consequences of Big 4 Auditor Office-Level Industry Specialization (2018). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Performance Evaluation. Vol. 14, Nos. 2/3, 254-289, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164585
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,008
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies