Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor, Client, and Investor Consequences of the Enhanced Auditor's Report

42 Pages Posted: 5 May 2018 Last revised: 28 Sep 2019

Mazen Almulla

BDO Auckland CBD

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Date Written: September 9, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the enhanced auditor’s report (ISA 701) in New Zealand on audit effort (audit fees and audit delay); audit quality (absolute abnormal accruals); client disclosures (inventory) and investors (value relevance). ISA 701 requiries an enhanced auditor’s report. A notable feature of the report is a section termed Key Audit Matters (KAMs). The purpose of a KAM is to disclose financial reporting risks, thereby enhancing the communication value of the audit report. We find no incremental affect related to the introduction of KAM disclosures. We find that both auditors and investors price the information in KAMs (audit fees and share prices) in both in the first year of KAM reporting and in the prior year. We note that client disclosure related to inventory KAMs are greater than non-inventory KAMs firms in both the year of KAM reporting and in the prior year.

Keywords: Key Audit Matters, Enhanced Auditor’s Report, Audit Fees, Audit Delay, Audit Quality, Disclosures, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Almulla, Mazen and Bradbury, Michael E., Auditor, Client, and Investor Consequences of the Enhanced Auditor's Report (September 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors; and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB) 2013, 'Submission on the IAASB's Exposure Draft: Reporting on Audited Financial Statements
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Phattarawade Sawangjan , Muttanachai Suttipun
The Relationship Between Key Audit Matters (KAMS) Disclosure and Stock Reaction: Cross-Sectional Study of Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore
GATR Journal of Finance and Banking Review , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 70 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Patrick Velte , Jakob Issa
The impact of key audit matter (KAM) disclosure in audit reports on stakeholders’ reactions: a literature review
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 323 Posted: 2019
Crossref
George-Silviu Cordoș , Melinda-Timea Fülöp , Adriana Tiron-Tudor
UK audit reporting practices in the pre-ISA700 (2015 revision) era
Asian Journal of Business Ethics , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 349 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Modar Abdullatif , Ayat S. Al‐Rahahleh
Applying a new audit regulation: Reporting Key Audit Matters in Jordan
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 268 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,193
RANK
19,611
6 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies