Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Large-Firm Audits on Municipal Bond Rating Decisions

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 13, No. 1, 1994

Posted: 8 May 2018

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

Date Written: 1994

Abstract

Municipal accounting information is widely believed to be useful to creditors in assessing bond default risk (e.g., Wallace 1985; Wilson and Howard 1985). Users of accounting information perceive that Big 8 auditors provide higher quality audits both for corporations (Shockley and Holt 1983; McKinley et al. 1985) and municipalities (Baskin 1986). Concern about the reliability of local government audits has been heightened by the U.S. General Accounting Office’s (GAO) (1986) recent findings that some audits do not comply with professional standards, especially audits by smaller auditors. Local government audits are relied on by the federal government, as well as the bond market, to discover material errors. Big 8 audits may signal higher “quality,” where quality is defined as a reduced probability that the financial statements contain a material misstatement. This study investigates the relationship between auditor type and the usefulness of municipal accounting information to predict bond ratings.

Raters’ perceptions of the usefulness of accounting information are assessed by examining the association between accounting information and bond ratings. Bond ratings are predicted for cities that employ Big 8 auditors, and a separate model is estimated for cities that employ non-Big 8 auditors. The observations for the two models are matched by size. The empirical analysis supports the hypothesis that Big 8 audits are associated with the ability of accounting information to accurately predict municipal bond rating decisions. By comparison, this study finds that accounting information associated with non-Big 8 audits is not able to predict municipal bond rating decisions better than random chance. This study provides insights as to the relationship between auditor type and the perceived usefulness of accounting information.

Keywords: local government, auditing, bond ratings

JEL Classification: M42,G24

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Arthur C., The Effect of Large-Firm Audits on Municipal Bond Rating Decisions (1994). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 13, No. 1, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3166282
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies