Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Reputation in the Auditing of Companies: A Game Theory Analysis

27 Pages Posted: 1 May 2018 Last revised: 15 Jan 2019

Xeni Dassiou

City University London - Department of Economics

Dionysius Glycopantis

City University London

Date Written: 01 13, 2019

Abstract

Numerous, mainly empirical, studies of auditing behaviour have recently looked at the “reputation” of the auditor and the size of fees it attracts. Our model of the auditing market advances the study of the fundamental principles involved in determining behaviour in relation to the rewards and penalties using an extensive-form game of the auditing process. We set up a two-player fraud detection game with bribes, bonuses and fines faced by an auditor. Our model yields that the auditor’s reputation, reflected in the size of bonuses, is critical to establishing a non-fraudulent behaviour by the client. Hence the model confirms expected behaviour. We further find the new insight, that while the existence of penalties deters fraud by the client, their size is not critical. This is a new understanding of what determines auditor behaviour. It is the perception of a possible penalty that moves the auditor in the direction of executing a thorough investigation using his acquired expertise.


Keywords: Interdependent Decisions, Auditor Reputation, Game Theory, Perfect Bayesian Equilibria

JEL Classification: C72, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dassiou, Xeni and Glycopantis, Dionysius, The Importance of Reputation in the Auditing of Companies: A Game Theory Analysis (01 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3170932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
N P Anastasopoulos , M P Anastasopoulos
The Evolutionary Dynamics of Audit
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 216 , p. 469 - 476 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Deangelo
Auditor Size and Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
J Barton
Who Cares About Auditor Reputation, Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
P J Beck , M G H Wu
Learning by Doing and Audit Quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,025
RANK
291,291
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies