Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How auditors' approach to client inquiry may affect skeptical judgment: A mixed-method examination of client inquiry and note taking

European Accounting Review. July 2022. 31 (3): 543-573.

Posted: 13 May 2018 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Jeremy Vinson

Clemson University

Jesse C. Robertson

University of North Texas

Mary B. Curtis

University of North Texas

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

Client inquiry is a foundational financial statement audit procedure. However, the literature offers little evidence regarding how auditors perform client inquiry and how note taking during client inquiry is associated with audit quality. We conduct a mixed-methods study to examine these issues. First, we conduct interviews with seven highly-experienced auditors and five staff auditors to understand current practices regarding client inquiries, as well as evaluating and documenting evidence gathered from client inquiries. These interviews provide a thorough description of inquiry, highlighting that auditors routinely take notes during inquiry but can have difficulty with the interrelated, complex cognitive tasks of asking questions, processing client answers, and taking notes during inquiry. Second, we conduct two experiments to examine the impact of note taking during inquiry on skeptical judgments. Results from both experiments indicate that auditors taking note of more ideas during the inquiry is positively associated with memory accuracy. However, this does not improve skeptical judgments, and may lead to less skeptical judgments. Our second experiment indicates a prompt to develop expectations prior to the inquiry improves identification of inconsistencies in the inquiry, leading to more skeptical judgments. We offer contributions to the academic literature and practice, and suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Client inquiry, note taking, memory accuracy, skeptical judgment

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Vinson, Jeremy and Robertson, Jesse C. and Curtis, Mary B., How auditors' approach to client inquiry may affect skeptical judgment: A mixed-method examination of client inquiry and note taking (October 1, 2020). European Accounting Review. July 2022. 31 (3): 543-573., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171148
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies