Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Hidden Risk of Auditor Industry Specialization: Evidence from the Financial Crisis

47 Pages Posted: 22 May 2018 Last revised: 3 Apr 2019

Cory A. Cassell

University of Arkansas

Emily Hunt

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Date Written: February 13, 2019

Abstract

Using a measure of office-level industry concentration/specialization (as opposed to a market-based measure), we identify situations in which auditor industry specialization could be detrimental for audit outcomes. In stable environments, industry specialist auditors should be able to apply their unique experience and knowledge in ways that yield better audit outcomes. However, during periods of heightened industry-specific risk, specialist auditors from the affected industry could struggle to secure and allocate sufficient resources to mitigate the heightened risk in the affected industry because, by construction, specialists in the affected industry have a client portfolio that is concentrated in the affected industry (i.e., there is insufficient resource slack). We test our predictions by investigating the effects of the recent financial crisis on audits of clients from the banking industry. We find that, during the period before the financial crisis, banking auditor industry specialization is associated with higher audit quality and more timely audits. However, during the financial crisis, the results indicate that banking auditor industry specialization is associated with lower audit quality and less timely audits. Collectively, our results suggest that auditor office-level industry specialization can be detrimental in certain circumstances and that audit firms and audit regulators should consider whether the audit market, audit firms, or audit offices have become too specialized to handle the resource allocation problems that crisis situations present.

Keywords: Auditor industry expertise, workload compression, resource constraints, financial crisis

Suggested Citation:

Cassell, Cory A. and Hunt, Emily and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Rowe, Stephen P., A Hidden Risk of Auditor Industry Specialization: Evidence from the Financial Crisis (February 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3174931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3174931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jeny , L Jiang
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 35 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
D Aaker
Marketing Research: Private and Public Sector Decisions Posted: 1980
K R Andrews
The Concept of Corporate Strategy Posted: 1980
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Caleb Rawson , Stephen P. Rowe
The power of not trading: Evidence from index fund ownership
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 3 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 4 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth N. Cowle , Caleb Rawson , Stephen P. Rowe
Does the news media mitigate the contagion effect of low-quality audits?
51 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 8 May 2025 · Downloads: 564
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,618
RANK
206,173
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies