Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Use of Honorific Appellations in Audit Reports Connote Higher Financial Misstatement Risk? Evidence from China

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3177200

50 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xingqiang Du

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Shaojuan Lai

Xiamen University

Mary L. Z. Ma

York University

Date Written: December 20, 2017

Abstract

From the sociolinguistic perspective, this study examines whether the honorific and actual-name appellations that Chinese auditors use to address clients in audit reports connote differential financial misstatement risk. Specifically, we hypothesize that auditors’ use of honorifics signals their inferior social status relative to their clients, thereby leading to compromised auditor independence, lower audit quality, and higher financial misstatement risk. We find significantly greater financial misstatements, both in terms of likelihoods and magnitudes, for companies addressed by honorifics than for those addressed by actual names. Moreover, compared to auditors’ consistent honorific usage, discretionary honorific usage has a stronger positive association with misstatements. We further show that the positive association between honorific usage and client misstatement risk weakens when the audit firm is a Top 10 accounting firm in China, is an industry specialist, is formed as a partnership, or resides in a more concentrated audit market. This study contributes to the sociolinguistics literature in accounting and provides evidence supporting the reform proposed by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) to enhance the usefulness of audit reporting.

Keywords: Honorific Appellations; Financial Misstatement Risk; Audit Reports; Sociolinguistics

JEL Classification: M41; M42; Z13

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Du, Xingqiang and Lai, Shaojuan and Ma, Mary L. Z., Does the Use of Honorific Appellations in Audit Reports Connote Higher Financial Misstatement Risk? Evidence from China (December 20, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3177200, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
K E Bailey , J H Bylinsky , M D Shields
Effects of audit report wording changes on the perceived message
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 370 Posted: 1983
W T Bailey
The effects of audit reports on chartered financial analysts' perceptions of the sources of financial-statement and audit-report messages
The Accounting Review , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 882 - 896 Posted: 1981
P Badolato , D Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Belkaoui
The interprofessional linguistic communication of accounting concepts: An experiment in sociolinguistics
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 362 - 374 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,277
RANK
580,215
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies