Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opinion Shopping to Avoid a Going Concern Audit Opinion and Subsequent Audit Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-106

Posted: 31 May 2018

Jong-Hag Choi

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Heesun Chung

Sejong University - School of Business

Catherine Heyjung Sonu

Kookmin University - College of Business and Economics; Korea National Open University - Department of Management

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

Despite regulatory concerns over opinion shopping (OS) behavior, there exists little systematic evidence on the prevalence and consequences of OS to avoid a going concern opinion (GCO) in today’s audit environment. Using 11,628 distressed sample firms over the period 2004–2012 and Lennox’s (2000) framework to identify OS, we find that distressed firms successfully engage in OS to avoid a GCO. Moreover, clients engaging in OS exhibit a higher ex post Type II error rate in audit opinions than clients that do not, and the higher Type II error rate is salient for clients switching auditors for OS but not for clients retaining auditors for OS. We continue to find this asymmetric effect of the two types of OS on audit quality measured by restatements. These results indicate that auditor switching for OS not only results in a higher likelihood of audit reporting failures but also impairs other dimensions of audit quality, while auditor retaining for OS has little adverse effects on audit quality.

Keywords: Opinion Shopping, Auditor Switch, Type II Errors, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jong and Chung, Heesun and Sonu, Catherine Heyjung and Zang, Yoonseok, Opinion Shopping to Avoid a Going Concern Audit Opinion and Subsequent Audit Quality (May 20, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-106, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3182103
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,716
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies