Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Client Status and the Auditor’s Presentation of Multiple Estimation Alternatives on Client Financial Reporting Aggressiveness

29 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2018 Last revised: 18 Mar 2020

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

Andrew Collins

University of South Carolina

Chad M. Stefaniak

University of South Carolina

Date Written: March 12, 2020

Abstract

Accounting estimates are highly subjective and multiple estimation alternatives often exist for a single account. When addressing audit-related adjustments with clients, auditors must decide whether to discuss all possible estimation alternatives or approach the client with only a single, auditor-preferred estimation alternative. In an experiment with experienced CFOs and controllers, we find clients with relatively higher status (operationalized as those with a CPA license) take more aggressive financial reporting positions when the auditor approaches the client with multiple adjustment options based on various estimation alternatives. Our study provides the first evidence that client status is a significant factor in auditor-client negotiations. We also demonstrate how auditors’ approach to client negotiations involving multiple allowable estimation alternatives can influence audit quality.

Keywords: auditor-client negotiations; client status; choice theory; estimation alternatives; reporting aggressiveness; accounting estimates

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Collins, Andrew and Stefaniak, Chad M., The Effects of Client Status and the Auditor’s Presentation of Multiple Estimation Alternatives on Client Financial Reporting Aggressiveness (March 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3184358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Abernathy , B Beyer , A Masli , C Stefaniak
The association between characteristics of audit committee accounting experts, audit committee chairs, and financial reporting timeliness
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 3 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A G Backof , T D Carpenter , J Thayer
Auditing complex estimates: How do construal level and evidence formatting impact auditors' consideration of inconsistent evidence?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 1798 - 1815 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,925
RANK
350,748
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies