Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is the Relationship between Audit Quality and Non-Audit Services? An Overview of the Existing Literature

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2018 Last revised: 16 Jun 2018

Jan Bouwens

Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: June 7, 2018

Abstract

This paper takes stock of the literature that appeared on the relation between audit and non-audit services. Press, regulators and academics alike have raised concerns about how audit quality is impacted if audits are performed by firms that offer advisory and audit services. I examine the literature that has investigated impediments that regulators have imposed on audit firms to also provide advisory (non-audit services). The studies provide little support for this concern. In fact, the findings suggest that positive spill over effects occur when firms combine audit with advisory services. However unspecified levels of advisory services (not advice on tax or financial information systems) may have a negative impact on audit quality.

Keywords: Non-audit service, audit, spill over

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bouwens, Jan, What Is the Relationship between Audit Quality and Non-Audit Services? An Overview of the Existing Literature (June 7, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3184895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The Joint Determination of Audit Fees, Non-Audit Fees, and Abnormal Accruals , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Bell , M Causholli , R Knechel
Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Chung , S Kallapur
Client Importance, Non-Audit Services, and Abnormal Accruals , volume 78 , p. 931 - 955 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Nourhene BenYoussef , Mohamed Drira
Auditor monitoring and restatement dark period
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 73 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Erik Beardsley , Andrew Imdieke , Thomas C. Omer
The Distraction Effect of Non-Audit Services on Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 7 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 865
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
HENRY L. FRIEDMAN , LUCAS MAHIEUX
How Is the Audit Market Affected by Characteristics of the Nonaudit Services Market?
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,935
RANK
94,830
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies