Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Option Trading Affect Audit Pricing?

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

71 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2018 Last revised: 9 Sep 2022

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Huu Nhan Duong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Michael Theobald

University of Birmingham - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 26, 2024

Abstract

We examine the impact of options trading on audit pricing for a sample of US firms over the period from 2004 to 2021. We find that options trading is significantly and negatively related to audit fees, indicating that firms characterized by higher options trading incur lower audit fees. Auditors spend a lower number of days auditing firms with higher options trading and firms with higher options trading experience lower probabilities of lawsuits, and misstatements, and lower likelihood of material weaknesses and auditor opinion on internal controls. The impact of options trading on audit fees is stronger when the auditor is located further away from the audited firm, for firms with non-specialized auditors, higher information asymmetry problems, poorer earnings, and lower governance quality. Overall, our findings underscore the significance of options trading in improving a firm's information environment and reducing litigation risk, resulting in lower audit fees.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Options Trading, Restatements, Lawsuits, Material Weakness, Auditor opinion on internal controls, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: G14; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Balachandran, Balasingham and Duong, Huu Nhan and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth and Theobald, Michael F., Does Option Trading Affect Audit Pricing? (June 26, 2024). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3184286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , F P Gary
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice &Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
J L Abernathy , F Guo , R R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
S C Anagnostopoulou , L Trigeorgis , A E Tsekrekos
Enhancement in a firm's environment via Options Trading Activity and the Efficiency of Corporate Investment
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 149 Posted: 2023
C A Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,984
RANK
217,471
1 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies