Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Partner Narcissism to Audit Quality

Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Ting-Kai Chou

National Cheng-Kung University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zili Zhuang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: May 27, 2018

Abstract

Relying on the size of partner signatures in audit reports to measure their narcissism, we find that audit quality rises with partner narcissism. Consistent with the intuition that Big Four audit firms with more sophisticated quality control structures and more standardized audit procedures narrow the scope for personality characteristics to affect audit quality, we document that partner narcissism has a larger impact in non-Big Four firms where there are fewer constraints on personality characteristics playing a role. Our evidence is constructive given that Gul et al. (2013) and Cameran et al. (2018) find that although some auditor demographic characteristics matter, the variation in audit outcomes across individual auditors largely remains unexplained. As such, our analysis responds to calls for research on the determinants responsible for inter-partner variation in audit quality. Our research also helps inform the continuing debate over the implications of publicly identifying partners in the U.S. and elsewhere.

Keywords: narcissism, audit quality, audit partners

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chou, Ting-Kai and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhuang, Zili, The Importance of Partner Narcissism to Audit Quality (May 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3185866
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,996
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social & Personality Psychology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies