Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Staff Auditors’ Proclivity for Computer-Mediated Communication With Clients and Its Effect on Skeptical Behavior

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Volumes 68-69, pp. 42-57

48 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018 Last revised: 13 Aug 2018

G. Bradley Bennett

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Richard C. Hatfield

University of Alabama

Date Written: July 2018

Abstract

A questioning nature and professional skepticism are fundamental requirements for auditors to conduct high quality audits and facilitate appropriate financial reporting. This study considers whether computer-mediated communication (CMC) reduces auditors’ questioning during interactions with the client, compared to face-to-face (FTF) communication. We also examine how nonverbal cues commonly associated with deception affect auditors’ skeptical behavior. Based on partner interviews and a survey comparing partners/managers with staff, we find that partners are concerned with the increased use of CMC for a variety of reasons, and that staff are more comfortable using CMC in a wider array of audit settings than are managers and partners. Experimental results based on Social Presence Theory (SPT) demonstrate that FTF interactions include more content and follow-up questions (a key aspect of skepticism) than CMC. Additionally, auditors engage in fewer relationship-building statements when communicating electronically. Also consistent with SPT, auditors communicating electronically request more documentation, though they ask fewer questions in general. Finally, using a unique measure of auditor skepticism based on revealed behavior, we find that auditors were more skeptical if the controller displayed nonverbal cues associated with deception, than when these specific cues were not present or not observable (CMC). Our findings suggest that communication mediums with reduced channels (e.g., no audio or visual channels), such as CMC, are less appropriate for complex and unique problem solving tasks. When paired with the concern that younger staff auditors are more likely to engage in CMC, skeptical behavior could be stunted in the modern audit environment, impacting financial statement quality.

Keywords: Auditor-Client Interactions, Electronic Communication, Face-to-Face Communication, Auditor Skepticism, Social Presence Theory

Suggested Citation:

Bennett, George Bradley and Hatfield, Richard C., Staff Auditors’ Proclivity for Computer-Mediated Communication With Clients and Its Effect on Skeptical Behavior (July 2018). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Volumes 68-69, pp. 42-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
is more easily accessed through field research Posted: 2015
Crossref
AU Section 230: Due professional care in the performance of work
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2010
AU Section 326: Audit evidence
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2013
C Agoglia , J Brazel , R Hatfield , S Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
RANK
251,810
21 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies