Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Responses to Shareholder Activism

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Jun 2018 Last revised: 3 Dec 2020

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Chenxi Lin

University of Oklahoma

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 5, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates how auditors respond to shareholder activism against their clients. We find that activism targets pay higher audit fees and also are more likely to receive adverse internal control opinions and first-time going concern opinions. Our results suggest that the increased public scrutiny associated with activism campaigns encourages auditors to increase effort and become more concerned about reputational damage and litigation risk. Consistent with this notion, we find that activism targets are more likely to experience accounting-related lawsuits. In additional tests, we find that the increased likelihood of unfavorable internal control opinions reflects increased auditor diligence (i.e, higher quality reporting) rather than purely reflecting increased auditor conservatism. Overall, the results of this paper identify a number of relationships that should be viewed as important by activists, target firms, and auditors.

Keywords: shareholder activism, going concern opinions, internal controls, audit fees, litigation risk

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Feng and Lin, Chenxi and Masli, Adi and Wilkins, Michael S., Auditor Responses to Shareholder Activism (June 5, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3191253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3191253
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies