Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Restatements for Misreporting on Auditor Scrutiny of Peer Firms

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2018

Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

Prior research contends that financial misreporting has a spillover effect on the outcomes of peer firms within the same industry through investment decisions, information risk, and shareholder wealth. We predict and confirm a higher level of audit fees for peer firms when serious misreporting by other firms is announced in the industry. We find this effect is limited to peers that exhibit poor internal control quality. In addition, we observe higher audit fees for peers of industry prominent misreporting firms and for peers of firms announcing restatements with larger negative market reactions. Overall, our results suggest that financial misreporting in the industry has a spillover effect on audit fees of non-misreporting peer firms.

Keywords: audit fees; audit services; auditing of financial reports; misreporting; restatements; spillover effects

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Feng and Kubick, Thomas R. and Masli, Adi, The Effects of Restatements for Misreporting on Auditor Scrutiny of Peer Firms (June 6, 2018). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192215
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies