Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 9 Aug 2019

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: August 6, 2019

Abstract

PCAOB inspections repeatedly indicate deficiencies in audits of FV estimates, resulting in efforts by regulators to improve the related guidance and auditing standards (PCAOB 2017a). Nevertheless, regulators cannot fully resolve the complexity and inherent subjectivity in auditing fair value estimates, and thus, other solutions may be needed. We predict that auditor task-specific FV expertise, gained from work experience during the audit of FV measurements, can contribute to higher audit quality. Utilizing FV-related restatements and comment letters, we find that expertise in auditing Level 3 FV estimates at the office-level is associated with greater FV audit quality. Level 2 FV expertise or national-level FV expertise are not associated with higher FV audit quality. Following the receipt of a comment letter, we further find that auditor FV expertise is associated with lower comment letter remediation costs and higher FV disclosure quality. Finally, we find that the value relevance of Level 3 FV disclosures increases with the extent of auditor FV expertise. Collectively, our results highlight that auditor fair value expertise contributes to the credibility and usefulness of FV disclosures.

Keywords: Auditor expertise, task-specific expertise, fair value, restatements, comment letters, value relevance, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting (August 6, 2019). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3192536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms understate stock-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Acuitas
survey of fair value audit deficiencies Posted: 2017
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Audit Analytics
Financial Restatements -A Sixteen Year Comparison Posted: 2016
Load more
11 Citations
Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Landi Morris
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): A Review and Implications for Future Research
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory 30 (2) · 58 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 21 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 1,687
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kyrre Kjellevold
Monitoring of Fair Value Reliability by Third-Party Specialists: A Review and Integration of Empirical Research
40 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 12 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 174
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bo Nordlund , Johan Lorentzon , Hans Lind
A note on auditing fair value of investment properties
Journal of Property Investment & Finance , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Benedikt Downar , Jürgen Ernstberger , Christopher Koch , Martin Prott
Does practitioner research help auditors to provide higher audit quality and improve their reputation?
47 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 11 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 309
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
869
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,905
RANK
63,599
11 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies