Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB Inspections: Public Accounting Firms on 'Trial'

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Jun 2018 Last revised: 22 Jul 2018

Kim Westermann

Cal Poly San Luis Obispo

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Greg Trompeter

University of Central Florida

Date Written: May 15, 2018

Abstract

The objective of our paper is to obtain a better understanding of how auditors anticipate the potential for PCAOB inspection, experience the inspection, cope with the consequences of the inspection, and understand the PCAOB's influence within the context of professionalism. We use a qualitative approach that employs both surveys (55) and interviews (20) of auditors (of varying rank and firm) across a five-year period (2012-2017). Respondents suggest that PCAOB inspectors are powerful, representing the 'prosecution', 'judge', and 'jury' of the auditing profession. We therefore employ a structural metaphor of the PCAOB inspection as a judicial 'trial'. By controlling the criteria for which to evaluate performance, inspectors have the power to repeatedly 'subpoena', 'interrogate', and return a 'verdict' on the firm (auditor); those judged as 'guilty' require supervised 'probation'. This process is perceived as having improved audit quality, but at a cost. Passing an inspection is so important, that auditors (firms) have resorted to impression management strategies and "functionally stupid" work practices (e.g., excessive documentation, a decrease in critical thinking as a result of a "box ticking" approach to auditing). Further, some respondents believe that being a good auditor has come at the expense of being a good accountant; the emphasis on audit process and concurrent de-emphasis on technical accounting could ultimately lead to audits themselves falling short. In addition, it is evident that inspectors and auditors differ in their perceptions of risk; likely manifesting because inspectors are standards focused while auditors (firms) are methodology focused. Finally, the inspection process has created excessive stress and tension, beyond budget and fee pressures, which some auditors perceive as affecting the pool of talented auditors that firms may be able to attract and retain in the future.

Keywords: Auditing, Inspections, Metaphor, PCAOB, Professionalism, Qualitative

Suggested Citation:

Westermann, Kimberly and Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Trompeter, Gregory, PCAOB Inspections: Public Accounting Firms on 'Trial' (May 15, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193012
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies