Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cyber-Security Incidents, External Monitoring and Probability of Restatements

44 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Pierangelo Rosati

University of Galway - J.E. Cairnes School of Business & Economics

Fabian Gogolin

Queen's Management School

Theodore G. Lynn

Irish Centre for Cloud Computing and Commerce

Date Written: July 29, 2017

Abstract

The number of cyber-security incidents has dramatically increased in the last few years as well as the costs they generate for the affected firms. The impact of such incidents on affected firms and individuals usually receives most of the attention of the media and researchers alike. However, cyber-security incidents represent main concerns also for regulators and for the external auditors of the affected firms. While regulators are mostly concerned about the impact on the general economy, external auditors face potential reputational damage if a security breach results in misleading financial results. In this paper, we investigate how regulators and external auditors react to cyber-security incidents in the two years following the breach. Using a sample of 4,764 US firms, we find that the breached firms are subject to increased scrutiny by both regulators and external auditors following a security breach; this results in a higher probability of receiving a SEC Comment Letter, higher audit quality, and lower probability of financial restatements. Our results show that cyber-security incidents represent high-profile events not only for the affected firms but also for regulators and external auditors who attempt to constrain the negative outcomes of these incidents through increased monitoring and enhanced controls.

Keywords: Restatement, Cyber Security, Audit Quality, SEC Comment Letters

JEL Classification: M41, M42, C30, K24

Suggested Citation:

Rosati, Pierangelo and Gogolin, Fabian and Lynn, Theodore G., Cyber-Security Incidents, External Monitoring and Probability of Restatements (July 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3193880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
C Caramanis , C Lennox
Audit effort and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 116 - 138 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Carey , R Simnett
Audit partner tenure and audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 653 - 676 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , H F Huss
Temporal changes in bankruptcyrelated reporting
Auditing , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 1995
C A Cassell , L M Dreher , L A Myers
Reviewing the SEC's review process: 10-K comment letters and the cost of remediation
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 1875 - 1908 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,092
RANK
186,369
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies