Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Does It Take to Become a Partner at a Big 4 Accounting Firm? Insights From Singapore’s Experience

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, Vol. 8(2): 166-178

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series Vol. 6, No. 3 Paper No 2018-90

14 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2018

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Yang Hoong Pang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kwong Sin Leong

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Due to the shift in partner’s identity, there have been growing interests in understanding characteristics, skills and behaviours of accounting partners. Given that Big 4 Accounting firms are supposedly international accounting firms that are organized in similar structures, an interesting question of whether the same partner qualities can be applied in the Big 4 accounting firms for a non-western context such as Asia. As far as we know, no such study has been conducted in an Asian context. We argue this could be of great interest to the Big 4 Accounting firms as Asia is one of their fastest growing regions and it is essential they have partners who are equipped with the right attributes to ride the waves of rapid growth. Accordingly, our research aims to identify the essential attributes of a partner in the Big 4 accounting firms in Singapore.

Our data collection involved interviewing 24 partners and ‘partners-to-be’ from the Big 4 Accounting firms in Singapore. From the data, we identified a number of attributes of a partner. Essential attributes include technical expertise, strong client relationship, solid leadership skill, team management skill, a strong sense of integrity and ethics, and good business sense. There are a few ‘good to have’ attributes that include overseas exposure, being IT savvy and having ‘X’ factor. Our study also highlighted that nurturing partner attributes may involve a development process. Mechanisms within the partner development process include having senior partners to be mentor, imitate a role model, sense-making through leadership and wide exposure to clients.

Keywords: Attributes, Partner, Big 4 Accounting Firm, Singapore

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Gary and Seow, Poh-Sun and Pang, Yang Hoong and Leong, Kwong Sin, What Does It Take to Become a Partner at a Big 4 Accounting Firm? Insights From Singapore’s Experience (2018). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, Vol. 8(2): 166-178, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series Vol. 6, No. 3 Paper No 2018-90, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3195038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
In the name of the client: The service ethic in two professional services firms
Human Relations , volume 53 , issue 9 , p. 1151 - 1174 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational time-reckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
C Carter , C Spence
Being a successful professional: An exploration of who makes partner in the Big 4
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 949 - 981 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,908
RANK
225,977
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies