Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality Inputs and Financial Statement Reliability

58 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2018 Last revised: 27 Feb 2020

Thien Le

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: May 18, 2018

Abstract

Using Amiram, Bozanic, and Rouen’s (2015) measures of the conformity of a firm’s distribution of financial statement line items’ leading digits to the Benford distribution, we examine whether different constructs of audit quality inputs are related to financial statement reliability. Overall, we find that financial statement reliability increases with audit fees, non-audit fees, and audit report lag, and decreases with audit firm tenure. We also find that audit quality inputs are more strongly associated with income statement reliability than with cash flow statement reliability. In addition, we demonstrate that the impact of each audit quality input on overall financial statement reliability does not vary with audit firm size, defined as an audit firm’s Big 4 membership. Our results are robust to various alternative specifications of the dependent and the independent variables. Using a century-old measure that recently attracted interest, our findings corroborate the significant role that auditors play in enhancing the reliability of financial statements.

Keywords: Benford’s Law; Financial Reporting Irregularities; Reliability; Accounting Errors and Frauds; Audit Quality Inputs

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Le, Thien and Lobo, Gerald J., Audit Quality Inputs and Financial Statement Reliability (May 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3195245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3195245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial Statement Errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Non-audit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,647
RANK
116,469
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies