Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of Tone at the Top from the Inside: Insights into Audit Pricing

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

62 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2018 Last revised: 22 Jun 2021

Jace Garrett

Clemson University

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Date Written: May 31, 2021

Abstract

Tone at the top plays an important role in entities’ internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) and in auditors’ planning and risk assessment decisions. Using a novel measure based on employee perceptions, we find that strong tone at the top is associated with reduced audit pricing and that this relation holds even for firms that report effective ICFR. This relation is stronger when employees’ tone perceptions are more consistent throughout the organization, when accounting is more complex, and when earnings manipulation risk is higher. We also find that strong tone is negatively associated with the incidence of reported material weaknesses and positively associated with positive abnormal accruals, and that the management integrity component of tone is more strongly associated with audit pricing than is the quality of management communication. Finally, we find evidence that auditors become familiar with employees' tone perceptions in the normal course of an audit.

Keywords: Tone at the top, Audit Pricing

Suggested Citation:

Garrett, Jace and Hoitash, Rani and Prawitt, Douglas F., Perceptions of Tone at the Top from the Inside: Insights into Audit Pricing (May 31, 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3196765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3196765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Abraham D Akresh
A Risk Model to Opine on Internal Control , volume 24 , p. 65 - 78 Posted: 2010-03
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
I Babenko , R Sen
Do nonexecutive employees have valuable information? Evidence from employee stock purchase plans
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 7 , p. 1878 - 1898 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P R Beaulieu
The effects of judgments of new clients' integrity upon risk judgments, audit evidence, and fees
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 99 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andria Charalambous , Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg , Elvira Scarlat , Karin Shields
Gender Composition and Conflicts of Interest in the Financial Industry: Evidence from Analysts’ Target Price Optimism
JBF-D-24-00122 · 67 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2024 · Last revised: 19 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,295
RANK
242,798
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies