Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Litigation: Deterrence Implications for Non-Sued Auditors

39 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2018

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Yangyang Fan

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 29, 2018

Abstract

Litigation poses a significant business risk for auditors. We argue that auditors learn from other auditors’ litigation events and examine the consequences of such events for future accounting misstatements. Using a hand-collected sample of auditor litigation events, we find a significant subsequent decrease in misstatement frequency in within-industry audits conducted by auditors who did not face litigation. This industry-based across-auditor effect is further supported (a) by an increase in audit fees; (b) an increase in auditor going concern opinions; and (c) is robust to a battery of controls including the use of a difference-in-difference approach. By showing that auditor litigation leads to lower, rather than higher, misstatements across an industry, the findings expand our understanding of misstatement contagion evidenced in other studies. We find no evidence of region-based across-auditor learning. Overall, this study, by demonstrating a deterrence effect of litigation for non-sued entities significantly enhances the impact of litigation beyond just the sued entity.

Keywords: Securities, Financial Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Fan, Yangyang and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Rowe, Stephen P., Auditor Litigation: Deterrence Implications for Non-Sued Auditors (June 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3204957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3204957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: a Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D B Audretsch , M P Feldman
R&D Spillovers and the Geography of Innovation and Production
The American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 630 - 640 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Kyung Yun (Kailey) Lee
Stock Price Crashes and Auditors’ Client-Retention Decisions
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 493 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
RANK
81,027
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies