Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IQ and Audit Quality: Do Smarter Auditors Deliver Better Audits?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Jul 2018

Jenni Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Juha-Pekka Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the role of an individual auditor's cognitive ability in delivering high-quality audits. Our results from analyzing archival data from Sweden show that audit partners' IQ scores obtained from psychological tests are positively associated with going-concern audit reporting accuracy and audit fee premiums. We also find some, albeit weak, evidence that audit partners' IQ scores are negatively associated with the income-increasing abnormal accruals of the client. These results suggest that although audit services are standardized through various control mechanisms and audits are conducted by teams rather than by individual auditors, the cognitive ability of audit partners responsible for an audit remains important in delivering high-quality audit services.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Partners, Cognitive Ability, IQ

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kallunki, Jenni and Kallunki, Juha-Pekka and Niemi, Lasse and Nilsson, Henrik, IQ and Audit Quality: Do Smarter Auditors Deliver Better Audits? (June 6, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3205278
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,675
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies