Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Corruption and Auditor Behavior: Evidence From U.S. Firms

Xu, H., Dao, M. and Petkevich, A., 2019. Political corruption and auditor behavior: evidence from US firms. European Accounting Review, 28(3), pp.513-540.

Posted: 31 Jul 2018 Last revised: 16 Apr 2020

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Alex Petkevich

University of Denver

Date Written: May 21, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of political corruption on auditor behavior in the United States. We find that U.S. firms headquartered in more corrupt regions pay higher audit fees, have longer audit report lags, and are more likely to receive a going concern audit opinion. Political corruption is a manifestation of a weak institutional environment and, as such, weakens the rule of law. In addition, political corruption erodes the public’s belief in a political system and reduces interpersonal trust. Our results suggest that auditors assess the risk and trustworthiness of their clients based on where firms are headquartered. The results are robust to using a 2SLS regression analysis and a propensity-score-matched sample. This study extends the prior research on political corruption and the client risk management strategies used by external auditors. Moreover, the current study will be helpful to regulators considering the more explicit role of external auditors in corruption risk assessment.

Keywords: political corruption; audit fees; audit report lag; going concern audit opinion

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Hongkang and Dao, Mai and Petkevich, Alex, Political Corruption and Auditor Behavior: Evidence From U.S. Firms (May 21, 2017). Xu, H., Dao, M. and Petkevich, A., 2019. Political corruption and auditor behavior: evidence from US firms. European Accounting Review, 28(3), pp.513-540., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209281
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies