Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry-Specific Knowledge Transfer in Audit Firms: Evidence from Audit Firm Mergers in China

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 28 Jun 2021

Xianjie He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Tusheng Xiao

Central University of Finance and Economics

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: June 26, 2021

Abstract

Using a difference-in-differences approach, we examine the effect of industry-specific knowledge transfer on audit performance after a merger of two Chinese audit firms with different levels of expertise in an industry. For clients in an industry audited by both merging audit firms, those audited by the audit firm less specialized in that industry belong to the treatment group, while all other clients belong to the control group. We find an economically-significant improvement in audit quality (as reflected in a reduction in financial misstatements) for the treatment group relative to the control group in the same merged audit firm. We show that the treatment effect is not driven by changes in auditor incentives or personnel movement and is more pronounced when we expect stronger communication between the less and more specialized auditors after the merger. We caution that our findings are specific to China and may not generalize to other countries.

Keywords: Knowledge Transfer, Audit Firm Merger, Industry Expertise, Audit Quality, China

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

He, Xianjie and Kothari, S.P. and Xiao, Tusheng and Zuo, Luo, Industry-Specific Knowledge Transfer in Audit Firms: Evidence from Audit Firm Mergers in China (June 26, 2021). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3209590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
Crossref
X Ai , L M Cunningham , X Li , L A Myers
How can small international accounting firms improve audit quality? The role of accounting associations and networks. Working paper Posted: 2021
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Alcacer , M Gittelman
Patent citations as a measure of knowledge flows: The influence of examiner citations
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 774 - 779 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,481
RANK
35,413
19 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies