Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Effects of Market Concentration on Oligopolistic and Atomistic Segments: Evidence of Audit Fees and Audit Quality

Journal of Accounting and Finance, 17(3), pp.121-136, 2017.

Posted: 28 Jul 2018

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

This study divides the audit market into the oligopolistic and atomistic segments at MSA level and examine whether the effect of audit market concentration on audit fees and audit quality is the same in these two segments. I find that the market concentration raises the audit fees in the oligopolistic segment. In contrast, the market concentration lowers audit fees, but raises the audit quality in the atomistic segment. My findings reveal that audit market concentration only reduces the competition among oligopolistic segment. In contrast, the atomistic segment becomes more compressed and more competitive in a highly concentrated market.

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Hongkang, Differential Effects of Market Concentration on Oligopolistic and Atomistic Segments: Evidence of Audit Fees and Audit Quality (July 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting and Finance, 17(3), pp.121-136, 2017., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209606
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies