Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prompting More Relevant and Reliable Audit Evidence Ideation With a Counterfactual Mindset

48 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 9 Apr 2019

Elizabeth C. Altiero

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: April 5, 2019

Abstract

Regulator concerns about the amount or type of audit evidence obtained by auditors are among some of the most pervasive and long-standing criticism of the profession. While prior literature has investigated many potential causes of suboptimal audit evidence selection, I examine whether the subconscious mechanism of design fixation is also contributing to auditors’ tendency to rely on similar audit evidence year-over-year. Design fixation is a phenomenon in which knowledge of how a problem was solved in the past blocks new ideas from coming to mind (Jansson and Smith 1991). Relying on associative memory theory (Nijstad and Stroebe 2006), I predict and find that priming a counterfactual mindset improves the quantity, relevance, and reliability of audit evidence ideation when auditors plan familiar audit areas, but not for unfamiliar audit areas. I also find the benefits of a counterfactual mindset on ideation are robust to the source of the design fixation (i.e., own knowledge vs. an inherited example). Supplemental analyses suggest that the improved list of audit evidence resulting from a counterfactual mindset subsequently allowed auditors to generate more efficient audit programs for familiar audit areas.

Keywords: Audit Evidence, Audit Planning, Relevance, Reliability, Ideation, Counterfactual Mindset

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Altiero, Elizabeth, Prompting More Relevant and Reliable Audit Evidence Ideation With a Counterfactual Mindset (April 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3214002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3214002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R F Arning
The University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign
Business Instructional Facility Posted: 2013-10-10
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
An analysis of alleged auditor deficiencies in SEC fraud investigations: 1998-2010 Posted: 2013-05
J C Bedard , S F Biggs
The effect of domain-specific experience on evaluation of management representations in analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 10 , p. 77 - 90 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
511,635
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies