Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Market’s Perception and Pricing of Auditor Competence: Evidence from PwC’s Oscars Blunder

Abbott, L. J., and W. L. Buslepp. 2022. An investigation of the market’s perception and pricing of auditor competence: evidence from PwC’s Oscars blunder Accounting, Organizations and Society Vol. 98: 1-18.

Posted: 18 Aug 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2022

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

On Sunday, February 26, 2017, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) erred on live television when Brian Cullinan, PwC’s U.S. Board Chairman and Managing Partner of PwC’s Southwest region, handed the announcers the wrong envelope for Best Picture at the 2017 Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Awards Ceremony (hereafter, the Oscars). Cullinan’s blunder represented a clear lack of competence in a non-audit service (NAS) context. Building on prior brand extension research, we hypothesize that market participants transfer their assessment of Cullinan’s Oscars ceremony (i.e., NAS) incompetence to the financial statement audit competence of PwC’s publicly traded audit clients. Consistent with this prediction, we find that abnormal returns in the days following the error are significantly lower for PwC clients in the region Cullinan managed, suggesting an impaired reputation for audit quality. However, losses experienced by PwC clients were restored within a month after the blunder, suggesting the durability of PwC’s reputation in overcoming the initial impairment. Taken together, our evidence suggests that investors find the disclosure of audit partner identity to be informative.

Keywords: Audit quality; Auditor competence; Audit partner identification.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Buslepp, William L., An Investigation of the Market’s Perception and Pricing of Auditor Competence: Evidence from PwC’s Oscars Blunder (March 1, 2018). Abbott, L. J., and W. L. Buslepp. 2022. An investigation of the market’s perception and pricing of auditor competence: evidence from PwC’s Oscars blunder Accounting, Organizations and Society Vol. 98: 1-18., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3216232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3216232
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,337
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies