Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting

66 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 13 Feb 2021

Vlad-Andrei Porumb

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Yasemin Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu

University of Groningen

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Reggy Hooghiemstra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Dick De Waard

University of Groningen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 4, 2019

Abstract

Starting in October 2013, auditors of premium-listed firms in the UK are mandated to prepare an expanded auditor’s report that provides details on audit procedures, risks of material misstatement (RMMs), and materiality thresholds. We examine whether the disclosures in the expanded auditor’s report provide information that is relevant for adopting firms’ loan contracting terms in the post-adoption period. Our results indicate that the introduction of the expanded auditor’s report is associated with reduced loan spread and longer maturity for loan facilities of adopting firms relative to non-adopting UK firms. When we focus on adopting firms in the post-adoption period, we find that “unique RMMs” (i.e., risks mentioned in the auditor’s report, but not in the report of the audit committee) are positively associated with loan spread, but are not associated with maturity and with number of lenders in the loan syndicate. Additional tests show that the benefits, in terms of a reduced spread, of having a low number of “unique RMMs” accrue mostly to adopters with a poor information environment. Taken together, our results provide preliminary evidence that the expanded auditor’s report disclosures contain relevant information for loan contracting in the UK.

Keywords: expanded auditor’s report, audit risk disclosures, risks of material misstatement (RMMs), loan contracting terms

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G32, K22, M42

Suggested Citation:

Porumb, Vlad-Andrei and Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu, Yasemin and Lobo, Gerald J. and Hooghiemstra, Reggy and De Waard, Dick, Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting (March 4, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3216492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3216492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 82 Posted: 2017
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K H Bae , L Purda , M Welker , L Zhong
Credit rating initiation and accounting quality for emerging-market firms
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 216 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
947
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,508
RANK
49,992
7 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies