Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Difference – or Deficiency – in Judgment? Evaluations of Auditors, and the Joint Effects of Approach Punitiveness and Wise Thinking Disposition

43 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018

Tim Brown

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: July 29, 2018

Abstract

Evaluations of auditors’ professional judgments by persons outside of audit teams (e.g., PCAOB inspections, AICPA peer reviews, audit firms’ internal quality reviews) are a pervasive means of helping ensure audit quality. We examine how three important psychological factors jointly influence evaluators’ assessments, moderating whether bias and unwarranted inconsistency occur for evaluations of identical, plainly acceptable audit work. We test our theory in an abstract experiment in which we manipulate whether or not the judgments evaluated by participants happen to differ from the judgments they made during an earlier stage of the experiment. We also manipulate the punitiveness of the evaluation approach and measure evaluators’ disposition for wise thinking. Consistent with psychology theory, evaluators exhibit myside bias in that they less favorably assess judgments that differ from their own, relative to the control participants who also provide evaluations for those same judgments. On a more encouraging note, high wise thinkers exhibit less myside bias than low wise thinkers under a more punitive, inspection approach and, unlike low wise thinkers, logically recognize that judgments differing from their own simultaneously can be less reasonable than their own but still of sufficient quality to pass an inspection. Regulatory bodies and audit firms should be interested in these results, as bias and inconsistency for identical, acceptable audit judgments reduce the capacity of these evaluations to advance the public interest by ensuring audit quality.

Keywords: External Reviews of Audits; Professional Judgment; PCAOB Inspections; AICPA Peer Reviews; Internal Quality Reviews; Wise Thinking; Experience; Myside Bias

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Tim and Majors, Tracie McDonald and Peecher, Mark E., Difference – or Deficiency – in Judgment? Evaluations of Auditors, and the Joint Effects of Approach Punitiveness and Wise Thinking Disposition (July 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3222207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
J Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A Summary Of 10 Years of PCAOB Research: What Have We Learned
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Peer Review in An Era Of Transparency: A Position Paper Posted: 2010
Aicpa
Peer Review Summary. Available Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Anantharaman
Comparing Self-Regulation and Statutory Regulation: Evidence from The Accounting Profession. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 37 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,953
RANK
224,403
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies