Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence of Industry Scale Effects on Audit Hours, Billing Rates and Pricing

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 Aug 2018

Simon Dekeyser

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy, Finance and Insurance (AFI)

Ann Gaeremynck

KULeuven- Faculty of Economics and Business

Marleen Willekens

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL)

Date Written: June 20, 2018

Abstract

Using a proprietary dataset consisting of all private firm audit engagements in 2000 from one Big 4 firm in Belgium, we investigate: (1) whether audit office industry scale is associated with a reduction of total, partner and staff audit hours and thus with efficiency gains triggered by organizational learning from servicing more clients in an industry; and (2) whether the extent of efficiency pass-on from the auditor to its clients depends on the audit firm's market power. We find that auditor office industry scale is associated with efficiency gains and a reduction of the variable costs (i.e., fewer total audit hours, partner hours and staff hours), ceteris paribus. Our results also suggest that, on average, realized efficiencies are entirely passed on as evidenced by a non-significant effect of auditor industry scale on the auditor's billing rate (or fee per hour). Furthermore, we find that the extent of the efficiency pass-on decreases with the market power of the audit firm in the industry market segment as we document a higher billing rate (fee per hour) for auditors with high market power (versus low market power). However, we find that the lower audit hours associated with auditor industry scale do not compromise audit quality.

Keywords: industry knowledge, audit efficiency, industry market power, efficiency pass-on

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Dekeyser, Simon and Gaeremynck, Ann and Willekens, Marleen, Evidence of Industry Scale Effects on Audit Hours, Billing Rates and Pricing (June 20, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222527
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies