Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Audit Independence and Audit Market Structure

25 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018

Harold Lopez

University of Chile

Claudio A. Bonilla

University of Chile - Faculties of Economics and Business

Date Written: July 19, 2018

Abstract

The audit market comprises a small group of large firms and a big group of smaller firms. We build upon the classic model presented by Magee and Tseng (1990) to shed light on auditor market structure. In particular, we focus on the perceived reputation cost borne by auditors that agree with managers on controversial accounting issues. We claim that when perceived reputation cost depends on the weight of a specific client relative to total income, larger audit firms can charge higher fees for the same audits, and clients are willing to pay those higher fees due to the premium paid by investors when audits are perceived to be of higher quality. Moreover, we find that market concentration produces a suboptimal output in which client firms cannot choose the auditor that maximizes their profits, and auditors cannot extract the maximum potential surplus, producing a social loss in the audit market.

Keywords: Audit Independence, Value of Incumbency, Auditor Market, Reputation Cost, Reputation Premium, Big Four

JEL Classification: M42, M21

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Harold and Bonilla, Claudio A., Perceived Audit Independence and Audit Market Structure (July 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3223639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Blay , M Geiger
Auditor Fees and Auditor Independence: Evidence from Going Concern Reporting Decisions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 579 - 606 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K Raman
Audit Market Concentration and Auditor Tolerance for Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 1171 - 1203 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K H Chan , K Z Lin , P L Mo
A political-economic analysis of auditor reporting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 48 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Chen , J Z Chen , G J Lobo , Y Wang
Effects of audit quality on earnings management and cost of equity capital: evidence from China
Contemporary Accounting Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 892 - 925 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Aysa Dordzhieva
Disciplining Role of Auditor Tenure and Mandatory Auditor Rotation
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 161 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
RANK
505,351
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies