Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Outcomes of Restatements for Corporate Accountants

Management Science, Forthcoming

84 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Michael Shen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of non-fraud financial restatements on the careers of corporate accountants. Using LinkedIn data, we identify a sample of accountants working at 201 firms that restated their financial statements between 2004 and 2014. We find that compared to human resource (HR) employees within the same company or corporate accountants in matched control firms, accountants in restatement firms, particularly senior staff, have a higher rate of departure and a lower probability of moving to a higher-ranked position outside the company after a restatement is announced. Using a longer job search period as a measure of being forced to leave, we find that the higher departure rate for senior accountants is due to being forced out rather than leaving voluntarily. The higher departure rates occur only for accountants working at firms with more severe restatements. In a separate sample of firms that restate financial statements due to clerical errors, we do not find higher departure rates for accountants after the restatement is revealed. Our results suggest that senior accountants in restatement firms experience negative outcomes in the labor market.

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Shen, Michael, Labor Market Outcomes of Restatements for Corporate Accountants (August 1, 2018).
Management Science, Forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information Dispersion across Employees and Stock Returns
Jiang. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 4785 - 4831 Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How Much Should We Trust Staggered Difference-in-Differences Estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J ( Bai , ) Jianqiu , M Serfling , S Shaikh
Financial Disclosure Transparency and Employee Wages
Financial Review , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 751 - 773 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
499,164
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies