Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Effects of Clients Following Audit Partners Who Switch Audit Firms

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018

Wen-Ching Chang

National Changhua University of Education

Hiu Lam Choy

Drexel University

Huey-Yeh Lin

National Formosa University

Meihua Koo

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona

Date Written: August 2, 2018

Abstract

We examine the determinants of clients’ decision to follow departing partners to new audit firms and the effect of this decision on the likelihood of financial restatements. Using Taiwanese audit partner turnover data from 1984–2010, we find that clients are more likely to follow departing partners when the partners have more clients, longer tenure, and when both lead and concurring partners leave simultaneously. By contrast, clients are more likely to stay with their incumbent audit firms when the firms are one of the Big Four or when only the concurring partners leave. The extended partner tenure due to clients following departing partners, however, does not enhance audit quality. In fact, clients that stay at the incumbent firm experience a significant decrease in the probability of financial restatements in the first year after the audit partners leave, but clients that follow do not.

Keywords: departing audit partner, auditor change, client following, financial restatements

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Wen-Ching and Choy, Hiu Lam and Lin, Huey-Yeh and Koo, Meihua, The Determinants and Effects of Clients Following Audit Partners Who Switch Audit Firms (August 2, 2018). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3225518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
China. Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 305
Crossref
M A Geiger , C S Lennox , D S North
The hiring of accounting and finance officers from audit firms: How did the market react?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 86 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M A Geiger , K Raghunandan
Auditor tenure and audit reporting failures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ghosh , D Moon
Does auditor tenure impair audit quality?
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 585 - 612 Posted: 2005
Load more
4 Citations
Beatriz Garcia Osma , Belen Gill de Albornoz Noguer , Elena de las Heras , Simona Rusanescu
Opinion-Shopping: Firm versus Partner-Level Evidence
63 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2016 · Last revised: 1 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 438
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Slobodan Kacanski , Dean Lusher , Peng Wang
Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms – A Multilevel Network Approach
Kacanski, S., Lusher, D., Wang, P., Auditor Selection Process: An Interplay of Demand Mechanisms - A Multilevel Network Approach. European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 27 Pages · Posted: 31 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahsan Habib , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Julia Wu
Corporate Governance Determinants of Financial Restatements: A Meta-Analysis
The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 64 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 438
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cristina Alberti , Jean C. Bedard , Olof Bik , Ann Vanstraelen
Audit Firm Culture: Recent Developments and Trends in the Literature
55 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
518,107
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies