Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internationalization in Auditing Research

16 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018

Andreas Andrikopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department Maritime Studies

Michalis Bekiaris

University of the Aegean

Christina Vadasi

University of the Aegean

Stella Zounta

University of the Aegean

Date Written: December 12, 2015

Abstract

We explore the range and dynamics of international collaboration among auditing scholars. Our sample spans the period from 1997 to 2014 and includes all research papers in the field of auditing which were published in six auditing journals and six journals of broader accounting readership. We find that auditing research is largely collaborative. However, international collaborations account only for 25.04% of collaborative work in auditing. The majority of publishing scholars are affiliated with USA-based institutions, even though at a declining rate. Practitioners also engage in collaborative auditing research, but their participation in published research output has gradually declined.

Keywords: Auditing Research, Internationalization, Publishing Patterns, Academic Collaboration

Suggested Citation:

Andrikopoulos, Andreas and Bekiaris, Michalis and Vadasi, Christina and Zounta, Stella, Internationalization in Auditing Research (December 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3225295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3225295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Prince Kelvin Owusu
Assessing the Implementation of Business Process Management on Selected Small and Medium Enterprises in Ghana
Asian Journal of Applied Science and Technology, Volume 4, Issue 3, Pages 82-90, July-September 2020 · 9 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,323
RANK
819,727
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies