Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Charge a Client Business Risk Premium? Evidence from Audit Fees and Derivative Hedging in the U.S. Oil and Gas Industry

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

54 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2018 Last revised: 20 Oct 2021

Tharindra Ranasinghe

American University

Lin Yi

University of Houston, Clear Lake

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

Prior literature finds that auditors charge higher fees for riskier clients. One reason for this is that auditors expend greater audit effort on riskier clients. However, it is unclear whether they also charge an additional client business risk premium. We investigate this issue employing a detailed, hand-collected dataset of hedging derivative usage by U.S. oil and gas exploration and production firms. Even though the auditing of derivative instruments requires greater auditor effort, hedging significantly reduces client business risk. Consistent with the presence of a client business risk premium in audit fees that gets attenuated when clients reduce their risks by employing derivative hedging, we find a negative association between audit fees and the extent of derivative hedging by clients. Further underscoring the role of risk reduction in this relationship, we find the above negative association to be weaker when the risk management efficacy of derivative instruments is comparatively lower. This negative association is also weaker when effort expended in auditing derivatives is likely to be especially high. We contribute to the literature by providing strong evidence for the presence of a client business risk premium in audit fees.

Keywords: Audit fees, economics of auditing, client business risk, derivatives, hedging, risk management

JEL Classification: G32, L71, L84, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ranasinghe, Tharindra and Yi, Lin and Zhou, Ling, Do Auditors Charge a Client Business Risk Premium? Evidence from Audit Fees and Derivative Hedging in the U.S. Oil and Gas Industry (October 1, 2021). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3229910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding, and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
Audit Risk and Conducting an Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 47
AICPA American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2000. Auditing Derivative Instrument, Hedging Activities, and Investments in Securities , volume 332 Posted: 1983
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
G Bae , S Choi , P Lamoreaux , J Lee
Auditors' Fee Premiums and Low-Quality Internal Controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 620 Posted: 2021
Load more
6 Citations
Merve ACAR
Bağımsız Denetim Ücretlerini Etkileyen Faktörlere Yönelik Bir Araştırma: Şeffaflık Raporlarında Yer Alan Denetim Gelirleri Çerçevesinde BIST 100 Örneği
Sosyoekonomi , volume 30 , issue 51 , p. 365 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Tianpei Li , Stephanie Walton
Is There a Dark Side of Competition? Product Market Competition and Auditor-Client Contracting
ADIAC-D-22-00056 · 52 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hafiz Hoque , Saadia Irfan
The role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating climate risk: evidence from earnings conference call-based climate risk
80 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2024 · Last revised: 10 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hafiz Hoque , Saadia Irfan
The role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating climate risk: evidence from earnings conference call-based climate risk
80 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 177
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,451
RANK
160,317
6 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies