Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Expertise, Jurors’ Social Identities and Evaluations of Auditor Negligence

Wilson, R. (2018). Auditor expertise, jurors' social identities and evaluations of auditor negligence. Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 18, Issue 3, pp. 46-60

15 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2018

Reginald Wilson

University of Southern Mississippi

Date Written: August 2018

Abstract

This paper employs Social Identity Theory to investigate the impact of auditor expertise and jurors’ identification with auditors on jurors’ perceptions of auditor negligence. Consistent with expectations, jurors who identified more strongly with auditors (strong identifiers) levied more lenient negligence judgments to auditors than weak identifiers. These findings suggest that lay jurors demonstrate the ability to empathize with auditors. However, the significant interaction between jurors’ social identities and the firm’s level of expertise suggests that the effects of jurors’ identities on negligence verdicts may be constrained by firm characteristics.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Auditor Expertise, Social Identity Theory, Auditor Negligence

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Reginald, Auditor Expertise, Jurors’ Social Identities and Evaluations of Auditor Negligence (August 2018). Wilson, R. (2018). Auditor expertise, jurors' social identities and evaluations of auditor negligence. Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 18, Issue 3, pp. 46-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Reffett
Kadous (2000) defended the use of undergraduate students as a proxy for jurors Posted: 2012
Lowe
Non-experimental research surrounding the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) suggests that the joint provision of audit and nonaudit services impairs independence Posted: 1999
The PCAOB defines an aggressive tax position as one that is undertaken for the purpose of tax avoidance unless the position is "more likely than not Posted: 2006
In order to maintain compliance with the Institutional Review Board, participants were provided with an informed consent form that (1) communicated to them the general nature of the research prior to beginning REFERENCES
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
766,148
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies