Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working with the Flu: The Association Between Auditor Health and Audit Outcomes

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 42 (3)

60 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2018 Last revised: 21 Nov 2024

Landi Morris

Northern Arizona University

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether influenza (flu), a potential threat to the conduct of public company audits, is associated with audit outcomes. Because the peak months of flu season overlap with audit busy season, audit offices most impacted by the flu may be adversely affected. The demanding nature of audit busy season and the culture of audit firms may compel employees to go to work sick, a phenomenon known as presenteeism. When auditors go to work with flu-like symptoms, cognitive functioning, resulting in brain fog, is impaired. This impairment may influence auditors’ ability to exercise judgment and professional skepticism, leading to adverse outcomes. Using data collected from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) we find that the filing of audit reports is delayed and audit quality suffers in audit offices most impacted by the flu. The observed effects of health impairments on company outputs have broad implications for both the audit profession and workplaces as a whole.

Keywords: influenza; non-timely filings; audit report lag; audit quality; discretionary accruals, material weaknesses

JEL Classification: I10, I12, E24, J24, M41, M42, M54

Suggested Citation:

Morris, Landi and Hoitash, Rani, Working with the Flu: The Association Between Auditor Health and Audit Outcomes (January 1, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 42 (3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3231579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3231579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
K L Bills , Q T Swanquist , R L Whited
Growing pains: Audit quality and office Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Foundation (CDCF) Posted: 2016
M Cheffers , D Whalen , O Usvyatsky
financial restatements: A nine year comparison
Audit Analytics Sales Posted: 2009-02
Y Chen , F A Gul , M Veeraraghavan , L Zolotoy
Executive equity risk-taking incentives and audit pricing
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2005 - 2234 Posted: 2015
Crossref
V Chhaochharia , D Kim , G M Korniotis , A Kumar
Mood, firm behavior, and aggregate economic outcomes
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 132 , p. 427 - 450 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,065
RANK
265,571
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies