Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Aggressive Real Earnings Management and Current and Future Audit Fees

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 36, No. 1, 2017

56 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2018

Adam J. Greiner

University of Denver - Daniels College of Business

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Thomas Joseph Smith

University of South Florida

Date Written: May 24, 2016

Abstract

We examine the relationship between aggressive income-increasing real earnings management (REM) and current and future audit fees. Managers pursue REM activities to influence reported earnings and, as a consequence, alter cash flows and sacrifice firm value. We posit that the implications of REM are considered in auditors’ assessments of engagement risk related to the client’s economic condition and result in higher audit fees. We find that, with the exception of abnormal reductions in SG&A, aggressive income-increasing REM is positively associated with both current and future audit fees. Additional analyses provide evidence consistent with increased effort combined with increased risk contributing to the current pricing effect with increased business risk primarily driving the future pricing effect. We therefore provide evidence that aggressive income-increasing REM activities have a significant influence on auditor pricing behavior consistent with the audit framework associating engagement risk with audit fees.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Business Risk, Audit Risk, Aggressive Real Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G21, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Greiner, Adam J. and Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Smith, Thomas Joseph, The Relationship between Aggressive Real Earnings Management and Current and Future Audit Fees (May 24, 2016). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 36, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3234326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Arthur Anderson , &amp; Co , &amp; Coopers , Lybrand , &amp; Deloitte , Touche , &amp; Ernst , Young , Price Kpmg Peat Marwick , Waterhouse
The Liability Crises in the United States: Impact on the Accounting Profession Posted: 1992
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,874
RANK
240,169
4 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies