Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors and Net Transfers Into Level 3 Fair-Valued Financial Instruments

Advances in Accounting 36: 27-39.

56 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2018

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Thomas Joseph Smith

University of South Florida

Adrian Valencia

Florida Gulf Coast University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Business Law

Date Written: September 12, 2016

Abstract

Prior research shows that managers use discretion in estimating Level 3 financial instruments to opportunistically manage capital and earnings. We investigate an earlier decision, subsequent classification changes that result in net transfers into the Level 3 classification, to examine whether firms use their discretion to engage in opportunistic transfers. We then investigate whether auditors influence the decision to transfer into the Level 3 classification and/or alter audit fees. Using a hand collected sample of public bank fair value disclosures from 2008 through 2010, we find evidence consistent with firms engaging in opportunistic transfers into the Level 3 classification. We further find evidence that high quality auditors appear to constrain this behavior, consistent with higher quality auditors mitigating some risks associated with Level 3 instruments. We also find evidence that auditors increase fees when managers transfer instruments into the Level 3 classification. Collectively, our findings suggest auditors manage risks related to Level 3 by both restricting transfers into the Level 3 classification and charging higher audit fees when transfers occur.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Fair Values, Level 3 Transfers

Suggested Citation:

Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Smith, Thomas Joseph and Valencia, Adrian, Auditors and Net Transfers Into Level 3 Fair-Valued Financial Instruments (September 12, 2016). Advances in Accounting 36: 27-39., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3234327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C Becker , M Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B Behn , J Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Berger , R Deyoung , M Flannery , D Lee , O Oztekin
How do large banking organizations manage their capital ratios
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 34 , p. 123 - 149 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Bhojraj , P Hribar , M Picconi , J Mcinnis
Making sense of cents: an examination of firms that marginally miss or beat analyst forecast
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 2361 - 2388 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,537
RANK
703,106
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies