Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Rotation and Perceived Competence and Independence: The Effect of Fees and Industry Specialization

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 14 Nov 2018

Roger Pereira Kamath

Independent

Ting‐Chiao Huang

Monash University

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: August 21, 2018

Abstract

Regulators and practitioners argue the relative merits of firm and partner rotation, while researchers report mixed results on the consequences of rotation. This study uses an experiment to examine the effect of an upcoming rotation on perceptions of auditor competence and independence and finds that participants appear to be indifferent to whether rotation is at the firm or partner level; they only react to concurrent changes in audit fees and the industry specialization status of the new auditor. Specifically, participants assess auditor competence and independence (specifically attention to detail, effort and skeptical attitude) to be higher when fees increase rather than decrease significantly at the time of a rotation and they assess auditor competence to be higher when rotation is to an industry specialist rather than a non-industry specialist. These findings hold regardless of whether rotation is at the firm or partner level.

Keywords: auditor rotation; investor perception; audit fees; industry expertise

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Pereira Kamath, Roger and Huang, Ting-Chiao and Moroney, Robyn, Auditor Rotation and Perceived Competence and Independence: The Effect of Fees and Industry Specialization (August 21, 2018). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3236556
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies