Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diversity of Signing Auditors and Audit Quality

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2018 Last revised: 30 Jan 2021

Chang He

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business

Yi Si

The School of Management, Xi'an Jiaotong University

Date Written: August 26, 2018

Abstract

Using data for listed firms in China, where two auditors sign the audit report, we examine whether the diversity of signing auditors’ characteristics affects audit quality. We find a positive association between diversity and audit quality, consistent with the notion that diversity facilitates team performance. Further analyses show there is a stronger association between cognitive, rather than demographic, diversity of signing auditors and audit quality. Our results are robust to the inclusion of client firm and engagement auditor fixed effects. Cross-sectional results indicate stronger effects of the cognitive diversity of signing auditors on audit quality in complex, opaque, less important clients or firms without industry specialist auditors. Findings from our study suggest that audit firms should allocate staff to audit teams in a manner that results in cognitively diverse audit teams because such teams are more likely to deliver high quality audits.

Keywords: Signing auditors; Cognitive Diversity; Demographic Diversity; Audit quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

He, Chang and Li, Chao and Monroe, Gary S. and Si, Yi, Diversity of Signing Auditors and Audit Quality (August 26, 2018). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3239092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S Harvey , S C Currall , T H Hammer
Decision diversion in diverse teams: Findings from inside a corporate boardroom
Academy of Management Discoveries , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 358 - 381 Posted: 2017
Crossref
D C Hay , W R Knechel , N Wong
Audit fees: A meta-analysis of the effect of supply and demand attributes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 141 - 191 Posted: 2006
Crossref
W He , A B Jackson , C K Li
Hierarchy and performance of analyst teams
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2020
Crossref
X He , S Kothari , T Xiao , L Zuo
Long-term impact of economic conditions on auditors' judgment
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 203 - 229 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
747
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,173
RANK
77,889
5 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies