Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The use and characteristics of foreign component auditors in U.S. multinational audits: Insights from Form AP disclosures

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2018 Last revised: 29 Apr 2020

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the common, yet previously opaque, practice of using foreign audit firms (component auditors) to conduct portions of audit work for U.S. public companies. U.S. regulators have expressed concern for the transparency and quality of audits using component auditors. Employing data disclosed in the newly-mandated PCAOB Form AP, we find that component auditor use is largely structural, determined by the size and complexity of clients’ multinational operations. We do not find the mere use of component auditors is detrimental to audit outcomes, rather, the amount of work conducted by component auditors is associated with lower audit quality (i.e., higher likelihood of misstatement), higher likelihood of non-timely reporting, and higher audit fees, which collectively suggest that component auditor engagements are associated with adverse outcomes. Further, we find that only work performed by less competent component auditors and those facing geographic and cultural/language barriers, including significant geographic and cultural distance, weak rule of law, and low English language proficiency, are associated with adverse audit outcomes. Overall, these findings provide initial archival evidence that the use of certain component auditors on U.S. multinational audits is associated with audit coordination issues, which suggests that PCAOB Form AP disclosures provide relevant information.

Keywords: PCAOB, Form AP, component auditor, group audit, audit quality, audit fees, report timeliness, geographic barriers, cultural barriers

JEL Classification: M42, G18, G28, F00

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Jenna and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, The use and characteristics of foreign component auditors in U.S. multinational audits: Insights from Form AP disclosures (March 1, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3240212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3240212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2019
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
Crossref
John Manuel Barrios , Pietro A. Bianchi , Helena Isidro , Dhananjay Nanda
Boards of a Feather: Homophily in Foreign Director Appointments around the World
University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2020-20 Pages: 66 Posted: 18 Mar 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
9 Citations
Jenna J. Burke , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Audit Partner Identification and Characteristics: Evidence from U.S. Form AP Filings
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 71 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Johannes Impink , Alexey Lyubimov , Ashna Prasad
Group audits and earnings informativeness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 245 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Juan Mao , Michael L. Ettredge , Mary S. Stone
Group Audits: Are Audit Quality and Price Associated with the Lead Auditors 's Decision to Accept Responsibility for Work Performed by Other Auditors?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 39, No. 2, 2020 · Posted: 26 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 11 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jinghui Sun , Jianling Wang , Pamela Kent , Baolei Qi
Does sharing the same network auditor in group affiliated firms affect audit quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 106711 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,912
RANK
143,068
9 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies