Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outsourced External Audit Work and Audit Quality

Posted: 12 Sep 2018

Carol Callaway Dee

University of Colorado Denver

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

Ayalew Lulseged

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Greensboro

Date Written: August 30, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether audit quality is reduced when part of the audit is conducted by auditors other than the audit firm signing the audit report (“other” or “participating” auditors) which typically occurs in a multinational group audit. Prior literature suggests group audits could face difficulties in coordinating work across multiple countries and legal jurisdictions. PCAOB concerns over audit quality when participating auditors are involved led to a requirement that audit firms disclose their use of participating auditors on Form AP. Consistent with concerns of the PCAOB, we find audit quality is lower when participating auditors are involved in the engagement compared to those without participating auditors. In analyses on a sample limited to engagements with participating auditors, we find having more than one participating auditor leads to lower audit quality relative to having only one participating auditor. We find no evidence to suggest that the percentage of the audit conducted by participating auditors influences audit quality. Other than the legal origin of the participating auditor, we find no evidence to suggest participating auditor characteristics (i.e. affiliated with the lead Big 4 auditor; not registered with the PCAOB; inexperienced with SEC clients of their own; or domiciled in a country that does not allow PCAOB inspections) influence audit quality. Lastly, we find higher audit fees for engagements that use more than one participating auditor, suggesting group audits entail a higher risk premium and increased costs to coordination.

Keywords: PCAOB; other auditors; participating auditors; audit quality; abnormal accruals; Form AP; AuditorSearch; outsourced audit work

Suggested Citation:

Dee, Carol Callaway and Gunny, Katherine and Lulseged, Ayalew, Outsourced External Audit Work and Audit Quality (August 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241793
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies