Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Politically Connected Audit Committees on the Audit Process: Evidence in Malaysia

International Journal of Business and Applied Social Science (IJBASS), VOL: 4, ISSUE: 8, August 2018

15 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018

Nurul Nazlia Jamil

Faculty Economy and Muamalat, Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Date Written: August 31, 2018

Abstract

This study aims to contribute to an understanding of politically connected audit committees on the audit process in an emerging market, namely Malaysia. The study seeks to examine whether politically connected audit committees have an impact on the audit process. An in-depth analysis of the interviews from the external auditor, audit partners and audit committees further reveal that political connections do affect the audit process. It appears that the existence of political connections leads to an increase in audit work such in a variety of ways, such as auditor-client negotiations, private meetings with audit committees, re-engineering the scope and planning of the actual audit work. One of the issues that emerges from these findings is that companies highly value political connections to obtain external resources given the uncertainties in the business environment. The findings highlight the need for stronger corporate governance to mitigate the higher audit risks in such companies.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Auditing, Political Connections

JEL Classification: M410, M420, M480

Suggested Citation:

Jamil, Nurul Nazlia, The Effects of Politically Connected Audit Committees on the Audit Process: Evidence in Malaysia (August 31, 2018). International Journal of Business and Applied Social Science (IJBASS), VOL: 4, ISSUE: 8, August 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3241994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role? Available at SSRN 224133 Posted: 2000
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Corporate governance and firm performance Posted: 2012
Crossref
M D Barr
Lee Kuan Yew: race, culture and genes
Journal of Contemporary Asia , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 166 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,231
RANK
534,865
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies