Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Industry Sector Leader Geographic Location and Its Association With Audit Fees

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 117-130, 2018

14 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2019

Matthew Reidenbach

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Katrina Wu

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This study tests whether an association exists between the geographic location of industry sector leaders in an auditing firm and differences in audit pricing for that same auditing firm’s industry clients. Using organizational learning theory and human capital theory, we predict that the industry-specific human capital of the audit partner in charge of an industry practice serves as a silo for this knowledge and provides an opportunity to charge a fee premium to their local clients. Using a hand collected dataset of partners overseeing industry-specific audit practices on audit firm websites, we provide evidence that a positive association exists between industry sector leaders’ office locations and audit fees for same-industry clients in that city. Building on prior research on the effect of individual audit partners and general human capital on audit quality, this study provides additional insight into the human capital of audit firm industry sector leaders and the dynamics of audit market competition.

Keywords: Audit Firm Structure; Audit Pricing; Human Capital

JEL Classification: J24; M12; M42

Suggested Citation:

Reidenbach, Matthew and Wu, Katrina, Audit Firm Industry Sector Leader Geographic Location and Its Association With Audit Fees (2018). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 117-130, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,141
RANK
623,124
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies