Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Governance Measures Impact Audit Pricing of Smaller Firms? Evidence from the United States and New Zealand

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 77-94, 2018

18 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2019

Umapathy Ananthanarayanan

New York Institute of Technology

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Motivated primarily by the claims that audit committee independence and accounting expertise and CEO compensation influence audit fees, this study examines the effect of such factors, on audit fees in two different institutional settings in the post-Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) era. The institutional settings are those of the U.S. and New Zealand audit markets, where the U.S. market is more regulated and litigious than the New Zealand market. The study sample comprises firms of similar size from each country. Firms in the U.S. with higher audit committee accounting expertise charge higher audit fees than New Zealand firms. The results also suggest that short-term incentives and total compensation in both the countries are considered as audit risk and priced accordingly even though N.Z. firms operate in a different regulatory environment. Study findings suggest that firms with better corporate governance arrangements in the post-SOX era in the U.S. demand a better audit effort from audit firms and pay higher audit fees.

Keywords: New Zealand, Audit Fees, SOX, IFRS

JEL Classification: M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ananthanarayanan, Umapathy, Do Corporate Governance Measures Impact Audit Pricing of Smaller Firms? Evidence from the United States and New Zealand (2018). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 12 (2) p. 77-94, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
RANK
692,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies