Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coaching Today’s Auditors: What Causes Reviewers to Adopt a More Developmental Approach

Andiola, L.A., Brazel, J. F., Downey, D. H., and Schaefer, T.J. 2024. Coaching today's auditors: What causes reviewers to adopt a more developmental approach? Accounting, Organizations and Society 112: 101548

49 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2018 Last revised: 9 May 2024

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Denise Downey

Villanova University

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

Audit workpaper review is a quality control mechanism intended to detect preparer errors and professionally develop preparers. In this study, we experimentally investigate two factors that theory predicts affect the degree to which audit reviewers adopt a developmental approach: local versus international preparer office affiliation and likely versus unlikely preparer recurrence. We find that reviewers adopt a less developmental approach for international preparers but a more developmental approach for preparers likely to recur. The adoption of a more developmental approach not only results in more coaching via review comments but is associated with greater detection of seeded preparer errors. Taken together, our findings highlight the susceptibility of quality control efforts in the global audit environment and identify recurrence as a potential intervention.

Keywords: global audit teams, international office, professional development, recur, review quality, workpaper review

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Brazel, Joseph F. and Downey, Denise and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, Coaching Today’s Auditors: What Causes Reviewers to Adopt a More Developmental Approach (March 26, 2024). Andiola, L.A., Brazel, J. F., Downey, D. H., and Schaefer, T.J. 2024. Coaching today's auditors: What causes reviewers to adopt a more developmental approach? Accounting, Organizations and Society 112: 101548 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3244759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3244759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
A comprehensive taxonomy of audit task structure, professional rank and decision aids for behavioral research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 11 , p. 51 - 92 Posted: 1999
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 28 , issue 10 , p. 95 - 106 Posted: 2009
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Brandon Ater , Christine Gimbar , J. Gregory Jenkins , Gabriel Saucedo , Nicole S. Wright
Audit roles and the review process: workpaper preparers’ and reviewers’ differing perspectives
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 438 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Yan Sun , Wancong Jia , Suyi Liu
Is auditors’ professional scepticism a “double-edged sword”?
Accounting Forum , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 241 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,559
RANK
242,798
2 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies