Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparison of the Effects of Going Concern Information in Japan and the U.S.

7 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2018

Yoshiteru Sakane

University of Nagasaki; Kyushu Institute of Information Sciences - Faculty of Management Information

Date Written: September 15, 2018

Abstract

In the U.S. and Japan, auditors assess the going concern ability (GC) of a company. Japanese Auditing Standards and American SAS No. 59 differ with respect to who has the initiative to disclose GC information. The present study was undertaken in order to formulate a hypothesis regarding the effect of going concern information in Japan and the U.S. using microeconomic theory and the cost of equity capital. This paper suggested a method to assess the reaction of stockholders by monitoring return volatility as a proxy for the cost of equity capital, which is very difficult to measure directly.

Keywords: agency slack, cost of equity, going concern opinion, return volatility

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Sakane, Yoshiteru, Comparison of the Effects of Going Concern Information in Japan and the U.S. (September 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3249847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3249847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
E I Altman , T Mcgough
Evaluation of a company as a going concern
Journal of Accountancy , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 1974-12
K Amin , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Going concern opinion and cost of equity
AUDITING:A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2014
Crossref
T G Bali , N Cakici , X Yan , Z Zhang
Does idiosyncratic risk really matter
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 905 - 929 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Audit procedures related to the going concern assumption Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,200
RANK
597,018
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies