Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Audit Market Liberalisation and Auditor Type on Audit Opinions: The Iranian Experience

International Journal of Auditing, 20, 87-100, 2016

Posted: 12 Oct 2018

Fakhroddin Mohammadrezaei

Kharazmi University

Norman Mohd-Saleh

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Romlah Jaffar

National University of Malaysia (UKM)

Mohamat Sabri Hassan

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia - School of Accounting

Date Written: April 4, 2016

Abstract

Audit services were provided exclusively by a state entity in Iran until late 2001, when the audit market was liberalised. The liberalisation of the audit market resulted in increased competition, as more private auditors became licensed to operate and provide audit services. The present study examines the effects of audit market liberalisation and auditor type (i.e., state and private auditors) on audit opinions. It is predicted that increased competition in the audit market may reduce the relative bargaining power of auditors, which can compromise auditors’ independence when issuing audit opinions. The present study also investigates whether the process of issuing audit opinions is influenced by the government, thus resulting in a lower rate of modified audit opinions issued by state auditors compared to those issued by private auditors. Importantly, this study develops an explanation based upon a bargaining power view of auditor independence in issuing audit opinions and upon the limitations of the explanation for the circumstances in which auditor and owner interests are aligned in the case of government entities. The present study analyses the data of firms listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange between 1999 and 2010. The findings, after controlling for auditor choice, reveal that modified audit opinions have decreased following the liberalisation of the audit market in Iran, and compared to private auditors, state auditors have issued fewer modified audit opinions. The findings suggest that increased competition in the audit market is more likely to decrease the relative bargaining power of auditors and that there is a significant concern regarding audit opinions when both auditee and auditor are state‐controlled entities.

Keywords: Audit Opinions, Audit Market Liberalisation, State and Private Auditors, Iran

Suggested Citation:

Mohammadrezaei, Fakhroddin and Mohd-Saleh, Norman and Jaffar, Romlah and Hassan, Mohamat Sabri, The Effects of Audit Market Liberalisation and Auditor Type on Audit Opinions: The Iranian Experience (April 4, 2016). International Journal of Auditing, 20, 87-100, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3250028
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,024
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies