Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IT in Accounting and Auditing Recommended Textbooks

33 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2018

Amr Kotb

Zayed University

Magdy G. Abdel-Kader

Cairo University - Faculty of Commerce

Amir Allam

Aston University

Ellie Franklin

Middlesex University

Date Written: September 20, 2018

Abstract

This paper reports the results of a content analysis of 38 textbooks across the three areas of financial accounting, management accounting, and auditing as recommended by institutions in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. The overall picture to emerge is that IT and related topics are a peripheral component in an accounting degree. This negligence arguably inhibits graduates’ understanding of their practice area and, more extremely, undermines their future jurisdictional claims over a techno-centric practice area. This paper dispatches a caution note considering the fast-changing business environment and its implications for the future of accounting education and the profession.

Keywords: Accounting Education, IT, Ideology, Hegemony, Accounting Textbooks

JEL Classification: M41, I23, I21, I29

Suggested Citation:

Kotb, Amr and Abdel-Kader, Magdy G. and Allam, Amir and Franklin, Ellie, IT in Accounting and Auditing Recommended Textbooks (September 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3252371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3252371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
Big data: its power and perils
ACCA Posted: 2013-01
W Aerts , P Walton
Global Financial Accounting and Reporting: Principles and Analysis Posted: 2013
M G Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big Data by the Audit Profession. Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Alexander , A Britton , A Jorissen
International Financial Reporting and Analysis" Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,030
RANK
375,525
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies