Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing Auditor Recognition of Goodwill Impairment Losses

47 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2018

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Elaine Mauldin

University of Missouri Trulaske College of Business

Date Written: September 24, 2018

Abstract

Auditing standards require auditors to evaluate the reasonableness of reported fair value estimates, but audit regulators frequently cite auditors for deficiencies in these estimates. Specific to goodwill, auditors must evaluate the probability that recorded goodwill is impaired. Based on small sample frames and availability theories, we predict that experiencing a recorded impairment at an unrelated client increases auditors’ internal perceived probability of downside risk. As a result, we expect more impairments at subsequent clients with economic indicators of impairment. Using a sample of 7,500 client-years from 2004-2014 with potential goodwill impairments, we find evidence consistent with our expectation at the audit office level. We also find evidence at the metropolitan statistical area and non-Big 4 audit firm levels; however, consistent with our expectation that the closer the auditor is to the prior impairment the stronger the effect, the audit office level effect is stronger than the other two levels and is especially strong in audit offices below the median size. Our study suggests that enhancing knowledge sharing around experienced goodwill impairments could help improve auditor difficulties in auditing uncertain fair value estimates and increase recognition of goodwill impairments.

Keywords: auditors, goodwill impairment, probability estimates, behavioral biases

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Mauldin, Elaine, Increasing Auditor Recognition of Goodwill Impairment Losses (September 24, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3254429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3254429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J C Anderson , S E Kaplan , P M J Reckers
The effects of output interference on analytical procedures judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1992
The effects of interference and availability from hypotheses
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 9 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1997
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 53 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,390
RANK
219,770
3 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies