Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Fees Linear in Accruals?

49 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2018 Last revised: 13 Jul 2021

Ryan Casey

University of Denver

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Michael Kirschenheiter

College of Business Administration University of Illinois at Chicago

Siyi Li

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Shail Pandit

University of Illinois at Chicago; University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: July 13, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the role of accruals in the pricing of financial statement audits. We posit that both large positive and large negative accruals represent increases in the auditor’s inherent risk, resulting in a nonlinear relation between accruals and audit fees. Consistent with our expectations, we find that both large negative and large positive total accruals are associated with higher audit fees. Further, the nonlinear relation between total accruals and audit fees is asymmetric, with a steeper slope on positive total accruals than negative total accruals. We next partition total accruals into specific asset accruals using an approach developed by Casey, Gao, Kirschenheiter, Li, and Pandit (2016, 2017) and find that accruals originating from different transactions exhibit predictably nonlinear relations with audit fees. On the whole, our results suggest that auditors respond asymmetrically to accruals based on the magnitude and source of the accrual.

Suggested Citation:

Casey, Ryan J. and Gao, Feng and Kirschenheiter, Michael and Li, Siyi and Pandit, Shailendra and Pandit, Shailendra, Are Audit Fees Linear in Accruals? (July 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3263854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3263854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee response
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Albrecht , E Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence? The Accounting Review Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Aobdia , A Srivastava
Educated Skilled Immigrants to Lower their Labor Costs? Evidence from the Audit Industry Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The Economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of mid-level managers within the audit firm Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,110
RANK
355,843
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies