Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reactions to Disclosure of Reportable Events

Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 181-194, March 2003

Posted: 23 Sep 2002 Last revised: 3 Jun 2016

Scott Whisenant

University of Kansas

Srinivasan Sankaraguruswamy

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Accounting

Kannan Raghunandan

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2003

Abstract

This study investigates the information content of FRR No. 31 reportable events (SEC 1988) communicated by auditors to clients in the two fiscal years and interim period preceding auditor changes. Reportable events identify weaknesses in internal control and problems related to the reliability of management representations and/or financial statement reliability. We examine 1,264 auditor changes (with available stock price data) over the period 1993 to 1996, including 118 companies with reportable events. Our findings suggest that reportable events, disclosed in Form 8-K filings of auditor changes are considered by investors to have information content. We find a -2.75 percent (-5.53 percent) cumulative abnormal return over a three-day (seven-day) announcement period surrounding the disclosure of reportable events in Form 8-K filings. The conclusion that reportable events offer useful information to investors is robust to alternative specifications of expected returns and to controls for other disclosures (resignations and disagreements) made when auditor changes occur. Further tests also highlight differential information content among the types of reportable events. Specifically, stock prices act as if investors find reportable events about reliability issues more informative than reportable events about internal control weaknesses.

Keywords: reportable events, auditor changes, financial disclosure reliability

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M49, G12

Suggested Citation:

Whisenant, Scott and Sankaraguruswamy, Srinivasan and Raghunandan, Kannan, Market Reactions to Disclosure of Reportable Events (March 1, 2003). Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 181-194, March 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=326440
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies