Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Response to Classification Shifting: Evidence from US Firms

Best Paper Award, American Accounting Association Mid-Atlantic Region 2018 conference.

Posted: 4 Nov 2018

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Trung Pham

Kent State University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: October 13, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine how external auditors react to clients' earnings management through classification shifting. It draws on the argument that auditors perceive earnings management as a reflection of managers' opportunism and potential litigation risk. Using audit fees, audit report lags and modified audit opinion as proxies for auditors' responses, we find that classification shifting is positively associated with audit fees, audit report lags and the likelihood of auditors issuing a modified audit opinion. Our findings remain the same when we use a propensity score matched sample. An additional analysis shows that abnormal audit fees are higher in firms with classification shifting. Overall, our results suggest that auditors tend to be more conservative when auditing firms with misclassification. As such, auditors charge a fee premium, make more audit effort, and report more conservatively when the clients engage in classification shifting activities.

Keywords: classification shifting, audit fees, audit report lag, modified audit opinion

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Mai and Xu, Hongkang and Pham, Trung, Auditors' Response to Classification Shifting: Evidence from US Firms (October 13, 2018). Best Paper Award, American Accounting Association Mid-Atlantic Region 2018 conference., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265742
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,248
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies