Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Controlling Shareholders’ Financial Risk Affect Auditors’ Perceptions of Firms’ Financial Reporting Risk? Evidence from Share Pledging

49 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018 Last revised: 24 Jun 2020

Ke LIAO

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC) - School of Economics and Management

Muzhi Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Deren Xie

Tsinghua University

Dengjin Zheng

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether controlling shareholders’ financial arrangements and financial risk affect auditors’ assessments and perceptions of firms’ financial reporting risk. Adopting a sample of Chinese firms covering the years 2003 to 2016, we find that audit fees are higher for firms where controlling shareholders have shares pledged as collateral to secure their private debt. This effect is more pronounced with Big Four auditors, newly assigned auditors, and firms with opaque information environment. We also find that firms with share pledges have more: earnings management, related-party guarantees and transactions, and a higher likelihood of irregularity. In addition, we do not find evidence that share pledging impairs auditor independence as proxied by the propensity to render modified audit opinions, which suggests that our results are inconsistent with the collusion hypothesis that auditors charge higher fees to tolerate firms’ aggressive behaviors. Our results are robust to endogenousity and measurement error concerns. Collectively, our results suggest that the uncertainty introduced by controlling shareholders’ pledging increases auditors’ assessments and their perceptions of firms’ financial reporting risk.

Keywords: Share pledge, Financial reporting risk, Audit fees, Controlling shareholder

JEL Classification: H32, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

LIAO, Ke and Wang, Muzhi and Xie, Deren and Zheng, Dengjin, Does Controlling Shareholders’ Financial Risk Affect Auditors’ Perceptions of Firms’ Financial Reporting Risk? Evidence from Share Pledging (September 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3267040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
434,536
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies