Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opening Up the ‘Black Box’ of Audit Firms: The Effects of Audit Partner Ownership on Audit Adjustments

56 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2018 Last revised: 6 Dec 2018

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Chunfei Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Xi Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 22, 2018

Abstract

Audit firms face conflicting incentives. On one hand, they are motivated to provide high quality audits in order to protect their reputations and avoid regulatory sanctions but, on the other hand, they also need to please their clients in order to increase their revenues. We argue that these conflicting incentives become apparent when comparing the partners who conduct audits (i.e., ‘engagement partners’) and the partners who are responsible for monitoring audit quality (i.e., ‘review partners’). Given their different responsibilities within the audit firm, we predict that review partners monitor audit quality more closely when they are motivated to work harder, whereas engagement partners tend to work harder by trying to please their clients. Consistent with these predictions we find that the associations between audit adjustments and partner ownership are: 1) significantly positive for review partners, 2) significantly negative or insignificant for engagement partners, and 3) significantly more positive for review partners than engagement partners. Our findings suggest that larger ownership stakes motivate review partners to monitor audit quality more closely, while larger ownership stakes do not motivate engagement partners to deliver higher quality audits.

Keywords: Audit adjustments, Audit partner ownership, Review partners, Engagement partners

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Wang, Chunfei and Wu, Xi, Opening Up the ‘Black Box’ of Audit Firms: The Effects of Audit Partner Ownership on Audit Adjustments (October 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3271165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3271165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
B V Balachandran , R T S Ramakrishnan
A theory of audit partnerships: Audit firm size and fees
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 126 Posted: 1987
Crossref
G Burrows , C Black
Profit sharing in Australian Big 6 accounting firms: An exploratory study. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 23 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 517 - 530 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Causholli , W R Knechel
An examination of the credence attributes of an audit
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 631 - 656 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Chen , S Peng , S Xue , Z Yang , F Ye
Do audit clients successfully engage in opinion shopping? Partner-level evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,798
RANK
91,525
6 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies