Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition and Certification: Theory and Evidence from the Audit Market

59 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2018 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Heng Geng

Victoria University of Wellington

Cheng Zhang

University of Denver

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: December 31, 2023

Abstract

We study how financial certifier competition influences syndicated loan contracting in the context of financial auditing. Exploiting the unexpected demise of Arthur Andersen that exogenously decreased auditor competition, we find a greater decrease in loan spread for borrowers in markets where certifier competition declined more. Additional analyses suggest the result stems from enhanced audit quality and reduced credit risk. The effect of certifier competition is stronger for borrowers with weaker external monitoring and those generating significant revenue for their auditors. Our evidence highlights the real effect of financial certifier competition.

Keywords: Certification; Auditor competition; Conflict of interest; Audit quality; Syndicated lending

JEL Classification: D43, G21, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Geng, Heng and Zhang, Cheng and Zhou, Frank, Competition and Certification: Theory and Evidence from the Audit Market (December 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3274044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3274044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
K.-H Bae , H Driss , G S Roberts
Do credit rating agencies inflate their ratings? A review
Journal of Financial Transformation Posted: 2017
K.-H Bae , H Driss , G S Roberts
Does competition affect ratings quality? Evidence from Canadian corporate bonds
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 58 , p. 605 - 623 Posted: 2019
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J Wang
Does increased competition affect credit ratings? A reexamination of the effect of Fitch's market share on credit ratings in the corporate bond market
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1011 - 1035 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,575
RANK
208,831
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies