Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Process Deviation Categories in an Auditing Context

37 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2019

Marzie Hosseinpour

Hasselt University

Mieke Julie Jans

Hasselt University; Maastricht University

Date Written: July 31, 2018

Abstract

Continuous auditing was introduced at the end of last century as an alternative method of auditing. This approach aimed to provide a higher level of assurance by testing full population of data in real time or in near-real time by applying data analytics. To date however, applying data analysis in an auditing setting still has some limitations. The most reported limitation is that the number of alarming cases, as detected in continuous auditing projects, is too large to examine completely. When looking at continuous auditing from a process angle, a second limitation can be observed: process analysis algorithms provide the auditor with a set of deviating process executions. This set is provided in a technical language, which is not aligned with the auditor's interest. In this paper, we address this latter drawback: when an auditor is provided with information on deviating process transactions (like missing a purchase approval), how does the auditor classify these deviations? Is there a specific set of categories that the auditor uses to classify these deviations? In a first phase, we conducted a literature study to extract a set of deviation categories from literature in the field of Business Process Management. In a second phase, we conducted a field study where we confronted auditors with 82 process deviations. The results of our study suggest that auditors broadly categorize deviations in three classes: activities that are missing, activities that are reordered, and activities that are repeated. This finding is to a large extent consistent with literature in the Business Process Management domain. However, one primary group of deviations in the literature, activities that are inserted, does not seem to be used actively by auditors. These findings may have implications for the acceptability of certain data analysis techniques by auditors. Having more insights in how auditors classify process deviations and attribute characteristics to them, will enable future research to map the large number of deviations in sets of deviation types that are meaningful to auditors.

Keywords: Deviation Identication, Deviation Categorization, Continuous Auditing, Process Mining, Conformance Checking, Deviation Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Hosseinpour, Marzie and Jans, Mieke Julie, Process Deviation Categories in an Auditing Context (July 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3280339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3280339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Iaasb: International federation of accountants, international standard on auditing 530
Crossref
A Adriansyah , B F Van Dongen , N Zannone
Controlling break-the-glass through alignment. Social Computing (SocialCom), IEEE International Conference on Privacy, Security, Risk and Trust Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Adriansyah , B F Van Dongen , W M Van Der Aalst
Conformance checking using cost-based fitness analysis
Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference (EDOC), 2011 15th IEEE International , p. 55 - 64 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: A pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 161 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,897
RANK
268,746
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies