Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Tenure and Misreporting: Evidence from a Dynamic Oligopoly Game

64 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2018 Last revised: 26 May 2023

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: May 25, 2023

Abstract

We estimate an infinite-horizon dynamic oligopoly model of audit firm tenure and misstatements and evaluate a policy counterfactual involving mandatory audit firm rotation. Longer tenure lowers the cost of producing audits, increasing audit quality and reducing audit fees. Thus clients are less likely to misstate and more likely to keep the incumbent audit firm as tenure increases. By reducing the value of retaining audit firms, mandatory rotation leads to large increases in auditor switches, even before the term limit, implying increases in the switching costs borne by clients. Misstatement rates increase because audit firms endogenously lower audit quality and newly hired audit firms have lower quality. Overall the model suggests caution when evaluating the costs and benefits of government oversight over the audit profession.

Keywords: Auditor tenure; Audit quality; Misstatement; Mandatory audit firm rotation; Conditional choice probability; Dynamic oligopoly competition

JEL Classification: K00, C13, M4

Suggested Citation:

Cheynel, Edwige and Zhou, Frank, Auditor Tenure and Misreporting: Evidence from a Dynamic Oligopoly Game (May 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
V Aguirregabiria , P Mira
Sequential estimation of dynamic discrete games
Econometrica , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2007
V Aguirregabiria , A Nevo
Recent developments in empirical IO: Dynamic demand and dynamic games
Advances in Economics and Econometrics , volume 3 , p. 53 - 122 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
P Arcidiacono , P B Ellickson
Practical methods for estimation of dynamic discrete choice models
The Annual Review of Economics , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 363 - 394 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,017
RANK
110,759
2 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies