Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners on Audit Quality: Evidence from the United States

International Journal of Auditing, 23 (1), 112-124

Posted: 12 Dec 2018 Last revised: 19 Feb 2019

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Long Liu

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: November 20, 2018

Abstract

The debate concerning the recent regulation in the United States mandating accounting firms to disclose engagement partners’ identity is ongoing. We examine the impact of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (PCAOB) requirement of disclosing engagement partners’ names on Form AP on the quality of audit engagements. Using two measures of audit quality (abnormal accruals and the probability of detecting material weaknesses in internal control), we find that disclosing engagement partners’ names is associated with a lower level of abnormal accruals and a higher probability of accounting firms detecting material weaknesses in internal control. Our study extends the contemporary research on the disclosure of engagement partners’ identification by providing additional evidence to the literature on this issue in the U.S. setting. Our study also provides evidence supporting the PCAOB’s perception that this disclosure leads to higher audit quality.

Keywords: engagement partners; audit quality; partner identification

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Mai and Xu, Hongkang and Liu, Long, Impact of the Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners on Audit Quality: Evidence from the United States (November 20, 2018). International Journal of Auditing, 23 (1), 112-124, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287685
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies