Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selection Bias in Audit Firm Tenure Research

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-14

64 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2018 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

David P. Weber

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Ce Wen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2023

Abstract

This study examines selection bias in audit firm tenure research. We first illustrate conceptually, in the presence of selection bias, how conventional pooled cross-sectional tests can lead researchers to spuriously estimate a causal effect of tenure on audit quality when none exists. We then empirically demonstrate the existence of selection bias: longer versus shorter duration client-auditor pairs differ systematically in a variety of ways that also relate to measures of audit quality, and these differences exist at the outset of relationships. Finally, we re-examine models of audit quality and tenure after including client-audit firm relationship fixed effects. These relationship fixed effects mitigate selection bias by moving the level of analysis from between clients (cross-sectional) to within client-auditor pairs (longitudinal). Our longitudinal analysis shows no evidence that audit quality changes with tenure over time within client-audit firm relationships. Overall, the combined evidence suggests that the previously documented association between audit firm tenure and audit quality is likely attributable to selection bias and cannot be taken as evidence of a causal link.

Keywords: Auditor Tenure, Audit Quality, Selection Bias, Fixed Effects

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Ying and Weber, David P. and Wen, Ce, Selection Bias in Audit Firm Tenure Research (March 15, 2023). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3288034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3288034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
The Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities: Report, Conclusions, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
E I Altman
Corporate financial distress: A complete guide to predicting, avoiding, and dealing with bankruptcy Posted: 1983
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
Man Yuan He , Qing Hui
Behind the Curtain: Linking CSR Disclosure to Internal Control in Chinese Firms
FRL-D-24-01454 · 44 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Friedrich , Sebastian Kronenberger
Effects of Transitory Client Characteristics on Auditor Switching Cost
48 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2024 · Last revised: 2 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,334
RANK
200,911
2 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies