Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Economics of Mandatory Audit Partner Rotation and Tenure: Evidence from PCAOB Data

Center for Financial Studies Working Paper No. 608

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-7

61 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018 Last revised: 24 Mar 2020

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

We provide the first partner tenure and mandatory rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as on audit pricing and production. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and, consistent with this result, little support for fresh-look benefits after five-year mandatory rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. Audit fees decline and audit hours increase after mandatory rotations, but then reverse over the tenure cycle. We also find evidence that audit firms use “shadowing” in preparation of lead partner turnover. The economic effects differ predictably by competitiveness of the local audit market, client size, and partner experience. When multiple members of the audit team start together at a new client, the transition appears to be more disruptive (but still less so than switching the audit firm) and more likely to exhibit audit quality effects, such as fresh look. Overall, our findings are consistent with costly efforts by the audit firms to minimize both disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations.

Keywords: Auditing, Audit fees, Audit quality, Auditor rotation, Audit partner tenure, Competition, PCAOB

JEL Classification: J01, J44, L84, M21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gipper, Brandon and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, On the Economics of Mandatory Audit Partner Rotation and Tenure: Evidence from PCAOB Data (March 17, 2020). Center for Financial Studies Working Paper No. 608, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3289927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3289927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
B Gipper , C Leuz , M Maffett , T B Keefe , D A Simunic , M T Stein
The Production of Audit Services: Evidence from a Major Public Accounting Firm
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 261 Posted: 1994
E R Patterson , J R Smith , S L Tiras
The Effects of Auditor Tenure on Fraud and Its Detection
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Pcaob
Section 4. Inspections: Rule 4000. General Posted: 2004-06-01
Pcaob
Auditing Standard No
SEC Release , issue 5 Posted: 2007-06-12
Load more
43 Citations
Partha Mohapatra , Ajit Dayanandan , Sudershan Kuntluru , Athira A , David McMillan
Audit partner rotation, and its impact on audit quality: Evidence from India
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Jeff L. Payne , Russell Williamson
An examination of the influence of mutual CFO/audit firm tenure on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 106825 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Huan Kuang , Huimin Li , Matthew G. Sherwood , Robert L. Whited
Mandatory Audit Partner Rotations and Audit Quality in the United States
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 161 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Joanne Horton , Gilad Livne , Angela Pettinicchio
Empirical Evidence on Audit Quality under a Dual Mandatory Auditor Rotation Rule
European Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,658
RANK
12,550
43 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies