Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Disclosing Critical Audit Matters and Auditor Tenure on Investors’ Judgments

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2021

Posted: 19 Dec 2018 Last revised: 22 Feb 2022

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Jesse C. Robertson

University of North Texas

Jason L. Smith

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

In an effort to provide more meaningful information to financial statement users, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) recently adopted sweeping changes to the audit report, requiring the audit firm to disclose whether or not it identified a critical audit matter (CAM) and its tenure with the client. To our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore how nonprofessional investors’ judgments are influenced by (1) the relative effects of a CAM disclosure versus a disclosure that the auditor did not identify a CAM, and (2) the disclosure of the audit firm’s tenure. We find that, relative to disclosing that no CAMs were identified, disclosing a CAM reduces investment intentions. We do not find a significant effect of tenure disclosure on investment intentions, despite evidence that participants attended to and understood the tenure manipulation. Concerning investors’ cognitive processes, we find that perceptions of both risk of material misstatement and management disclosure credibility mediate the effect of CAM disclosure on investment intentions, while perceived audit quality suppresses this effect. Our contributions include furthering the understanding of cognitive mechanisms through which CAM disclosure influences investment intentions, identifying a relatively unique setting in which perceptions of management disclosure credibility and audit quality move in opposite directions, and providing evidence that auditor tenure disclosure does not appear to affect investment intentions. Our findings should be of interest to regulators, auditors, issuers, and investors.

Keywords: Critical audit matters; auditor tenure; nonprofessional investors; management disclosure credibility; audit quality.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Rapley, Eric T. and Robertson, Jesse C. and Smith, Jason L., The Effects of Disclosing Critical Audit Matters and Auditor Tenure on Investors’ Judgments (October 26, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3294340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3294340
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Vlad-Andrei Porumb , Yasemin Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu , Gerald J. Lobo , Reggy Hooghiemstra , Dick De Waard
Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting
66 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 13 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 947
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies