Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Communicate an Exclusion From the Statutory Audit of Narrative Reports?

54 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2018 Last revised: 5 May 2020

Peter Kajüter

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Max Meinhövel

University of Münster

Kai Schaumann

University of Münster

Date Written: April 2020

Abstract

This study addresses two potential ways of communicating an exclusion from a statutory audit of narratives, as recently proposed by auditors: (1) an explicit label at the page margin and (2) an appendix to the auditor’s report referencing unaudited information. We conduct an eye-tracking experiment and examine the impact of communicating such an exclusion from the audit on financial report users’ attention, understanding, and credit risk judgment in a lending-decision task. Our results show that the effect of the audit exclusion depends on whether users understand which pieces of information were left unaudited and on the amount of attention they pay to the unaudited information. Specifically, we predict and find that the label increases users’ attention to unaudited information and enhances their understanding of the audit exclusion. For an appendix to the auditor’s report, however, we cannot document similar results. Users subject to the appendix do not direct more attention to the unaudited information and even show a lower ability to distinguish audited from unaudited information. Furthermore, the amount of attention that users pay to the unaudited information and their degree of understanding of the audit exclusion have a direct influence on their credit risk assessment. The results of this study imply a potentially widened expectations gap due to audit exclusions and highlight the need for clear communication of the audit status of narratives.

Keywords: assurance, audit exclusion, eye tracking, information processing, narrative disclosures

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kajüter, Peter and Meinhövel, Max and Schaumann, Kai, How to Communicate an Exclusion From the Statutory Audit of Narrative Reports? (April 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3297481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
P Andersson
Does experience matter in lending? A process-tracing study on experienced loan officers' and novices' decision behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 471 - 492 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A D Andre , C D Wickens
Proximity compatibility and information display: The effects of space and color on the analysis of aircraft stall conditions Posted: 1989
V Beattie
Accounting narratives and the narrative turn in accounting research: Issues, theory, methodology, methods and a research framework
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 134 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J C Bedard , S G Sutton , V Arnold , J R Phillips
Another piece of the "expectations gap": What do investors know about auditor involvement with information in the annual report?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,292
RANK
290,067
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies