Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Engagement Partner Attributes and Audit Quality: Does the Partner’s Ownership Stake Matter?

51 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2019 Last revised: 16 Feb 2019

Mine H. Aksu

Sabanci University

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the association between audit quality and some unique attributes of the engagement audit partners in the Turkish audit market during the period 2008-2014. We specifically examine the impact of the engagement partners’ ownership stakes in their audit firms, their busyness and in-house tenure in their current firms, and whether the impact is different for the “top guys” with the largest % ownership in the firm, on the probability of restatements, qualified opinions, going concern qualifications, and less egregious and less direct earnings management type audit failures such as the use of discretionary accruals. The results show that ownership % plays a role in independent audit judgments and increases the audit quality. We contribute to audit firm partnership and audit quality literature by introducing the engagement partner’s ownership stake in his firm as a comprehensive proxy for the auditor’s supply of audit quality. This variable could also be helpful in many emerging markets where audit fees data are not publicly disclosed. The study also sheds some light on whether the accounting and auditing reforms that took place in 2012 improved audit quality in Turkey. Our study may be of interest to researchers, regulators and client and audit firms all over the world.

Keywords: audit quality, ownership, Borsa Istanbul, restatements, audit opinion, earnings management, going concern

JEL Classification: M42, M48,

Suggested Citation:

Aksu, Mine H. and Demirkan, Sebahattin, Engagement Partner Attributes and Audit Quality: Does the Partner’s Ownership Stake Matter? (December 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3300770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Anant , F A Gul , S G Lynn
Litigation risk and audit fees: evidence from UK firms cross-listed on us markets
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 115 Posted: 2002
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-U.S. firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 53 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Contingent economic rents: Insidious threats to audit independence
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 5 , p. 21 - 50
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,836
RANK
405,369
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies