Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Audit Production: What Matters for Audit Quality? An Empirical Analysis of the Role of Mid-level Managers within the Audit Firm

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2018 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Noah Newberger

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; Oeste Division of Research & Statistics

Date Written: August 28, 2023

Abstract

As audits of public companies are labor intensive, require a variety of team members and involve year-round work, practitioners and academics have increasingly focused on identifying audit production factors that drive audit quality. Using proprietary data, we analyze the cost-benefit tradeoffs of two audit production characteristics, client expertise and the relative amount of auditing done during the early phases of the audit and find that both are associated with more effective audits and higher fees. We analyze whether the influence of these characteristics varies across audit team members. We find that middle manager production characteristics explain audit effectiveness and higher fees, and relatively more so than those of lead/review partners. These results extend the literature and practitioner discussions about drivers of audit quality by highlighting the importance of middle management which, to our knowledge has largely been overlooked by the archival audit literature and regulatory guidance on audit quality indicators.

Keywords: audit production; client expertise; year-round auditing; human capital; audit partners; audit managers, senior managers, and directors; audit quality; audit fees; credence goods

JEL Classification: D20; D22; J24; L23; M11; M4; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Choudhary, Preeti and Newberger, Noah, The Economics of Audit Production: What Matters for Audit Quality? An Empirical Analysis of the Role of Mid-level Managers within the Audit Firm (August 28, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3300277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. A26 - A42 Posted: 2014
D Aobdia , C.-J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process -preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,940
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,937
RANK
19,544
5 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies