Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Reporting and Regulatory Sanctions in the Broker‐Dealer Industry: From Self‐Regulation to PCAOB Oversight

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Jan 2019

Anne L. Schnader

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Nathan H. Cannon

Texas State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 12, 2018

Abstract

The financial security of the investing public relies on high quality service by broker-dealers (BDs), investors’ gateway to the financial markets. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has long required auditors to attest to BDs’ internal controls and compliance with regulations (including those privately owned). Following the unravelling of the Madoff Ponzi scheme in 2008, the SEC required auditors of all BDs to register with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), and Congressional initiatives signaled imminent transition from private (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; AICPA) to public (PCAOB) oversight. We investigate whether audit quality increased following this transition by measuring whether auditors report material internal control and compliance problems for BD clients where a deficiency presumably existed (i.e., BDs sanctioned by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) for transgressions against stakeholders). Overall, we do not find increased reporting quality following the regulatory shift, but do observe variation by auditor group and BD ownership. While reporting quality for global network firms (GNFs) increases slightly, lower reporting quality observed prior to the regulatory shift for Specialist audit firms (having large BD portfolios but small overall size) is exacerbated afterward. This finding complements results of PCAOB inspections and other research identifying audit quality problems among small, industry-specialized firms in non-public client settings. Focusing on deficiencies likely more difficult to detect, we find lower reporting quality for private relative to publicly-affiliated BDs prior to PCAOB oversight, and lower reporting quality for very small audit firms relative to GNFs following the regulatory shift.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Audit Quality, Broker-Dealer, Private Companies

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Schnader, Anne L. and Bedard, Jean C. and Cannon, Nathan Hatch, Auditor Reporting and Regulatory Sanctions in the Broker‐Dealer Industry: From Self‐Regulation to PCAOB Oversight (September 12, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3302815
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies