Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Length of the Cooling-Off Period Impact Audit Quality?

50 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2019

Rebecca Mattocks

Monash University

Ting‐Chiao Huang

Monash University

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Ashna Prasad

Monash University

Date Written: December 17, 2018

Abstract

Several countries have implemented a policy of mandatory partner rotation (MPR) in response to concerns around auditor independence. Integrated within MPR requirements, minimum cooling-off periods regulate audit quality at the time of a rotation-back. Within the context of a proposed extension to the minimum cooling-off period, we examine the association between the length of the cooling-off period and audit quality. We use Australian data as the partner can be identified and there is variation in cooling-off periods since the inception of MPR. We consider the merits of an extended cooling-off period by measuring audit quality both at the time of a rotation-back and at the expiration of a cooling-off period. Consistent with prior literature, we measure audit quality as abnormal working capital accruals and the auditor’s propensity to issue a going-concern opinion for financially distressed firms. For rotation-back observations, we find no evidence of an association between the length of the cooling-off period and audit quality. For cooling-off period observations, we find some evidence of larger abnormal working capital accruals and a lower propensity to issue a going-concern opinion, consistent with a deterioration in audit quality associated with longer cooling-off periods. We provide preliminary evidence that extending the cooling-off period does not enhance audit quality when a partner rotates-back on to a client and uncover an unintended consequence of the effect of this policy during the cooling-off period.

Suggested Citation:

Mattocks, Rebecca and Huang, Ting-Chiao and Moroney, Robyn and Prasad, Ashna, Does the Length of the Cooling-Off Period Impact Audit Quality? (December 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3302355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3302355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
C Lim , H Tan
Does Auditor Tenure Improve Audit Quality? Moderating Effects of Industry Specialization and Fee Dependence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 923 - 957 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Manry , T Mock , J Turner
Does increased audit partner tenure reduce audit quality
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 553 - 572 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G Monroe , S Hossain
Does audit quality improve after the implementation of mandatory audit partner rotation? Accounting & management information systems , volume 2 , p. 263 - 279 Posted: 2013
R Moroney
Editorial: Regulating Audit Quality -Ramifications and Research Opportunities
International Journal of Auditing , volume 20 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,322
RANK
197,664
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies