Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Habit Strength-Based Explanation for Auditors’ Use of Simple Cognitive Processes for Complex Tasks

50 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2019 Last revised: 9 Apr 2021

Sarah E. Bonner

University of Southern California

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

We experimentally examine whether audit seniors’ use of simple cognitive processes for a complex task is affected by the strength of habits that they developed as staff. A habit is a mental association between a behavior and a specific context. We propose that, for seniors with stronger habits to use simple processes, the typical audit room context automatically activates those processes, making it harder to select the processes that are more effective for a complex task. As predicted, we find that seniors with stronger habits identify fewer issues with a complex estimate than seniors with weaker habits when in the typical context. Seniors with stronger habits perform better in an alternative context that does not activate the simple processes, while those with weaker habits do not. Additional analyses validate that habit strength underlies our results and explore how the audit setting influences the development and enactment of habitual behaviors.

Keywords: habits, cognitive processing, accounting estimates, audit quality, financial reporting quality, goodwill impairment

JEL Classification: G10, M40, M41, M42, D80, D91

Suggested Citation:

Bonner, Sarah E. and Kadous, Kathryn and Majors, Tracie McDonald, A Habit Strength-Based Explanation for Auditors’ Use of Simple Cognitive Processes for Complex Tasks (April 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3302949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3302949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
M Adriaanse , P Gollwitzer , D De Ridder , J Wit , F Kroese
Breaking Habits With Implementation Intentions: A Test of Underlying Processes
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 502 - 513 Posted: 2011
Crossref
I Ajzen , J Sexton
Depth of Processing, Belief Congruence, and Attitude-Behavior Correspondence
Dual-Process Theories in Social Psychology Posted: 1999
N Anderson
Foundation of Information Integration Theory Posted: 1981
A Austin , J Hammersley , M Ricci
Improving Auditors' Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Estimate Assumptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 696 - 716 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,677
RANK
128,170
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies