Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Multitasking Audit Environment: The Effect of Alternative Modes of Communication on Team Performance

49 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2019 Last revised: 16 Nov 2020

Juergen Sidgman

University of Alaska Anchorage - College of Business & Public Policy

Veena L Brown

University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 15, 2020

Abstract

Despite the considerable evidence suggesting multitasking reduces performance, multitasking is unavoidable and pervasive in the audit setting. Members of engagement teams are often required to work on multiple engagements simultaneously and their work on one engagement is frequently interrupted due to the demands of another engagement. In hopes of facilitating multitasking, engagement team communications have extended beyond face-to-face interactions to computer mediated communication (CMC) technologies. However, little is known about the performance of multitasking teams under these alternative modes of communication (face-to-face, discussion board, and chatroom). Our study demonstrates that, when multitasking, the performance of audit teams communicating face-to-face is greater than the performance of teams using computer mediated communication (discussion board and chatroom). While we expected enhanced team performance with discussion boards, additional analyses reveal that participants’ familiarity with, and preference for, chatroom features (which are similar to text messaging) may have offset the benefits prior studies have attributed to discussion boards (which are similar to email).

Keywords: audit team performance, chatroom, computer mediated communication, discussion board, face-to-face, multitasking

Suggested Citation:

Sidgman, Juergen and Brown, Veena L and Brazel, Joseph F., The Multitasking Audit Environment: The Effect of Alternative Modes of Communication on Team Performance (November 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3310579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3310579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R F Adler , R Benbunan-Fich
Juggling on a high wire: Multitasking effects on performance
Journal of Human Computer Studies , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 156 - 168 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads? Auditing: A
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E M Altmann , J G Trafton
Memory for goals: An activation-based model
Cognitive Science , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 83 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,278
RANK
185,220
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies