Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Persuasive Response Sequence and Consistency when IT Service Providers Address Auditor-Identified Issues in SOC2 Reports

Sheldon, M. D., S. Bhattacharjee, and R. Barkhi. 2022. The impact of persuasive response sequence and consistency when IT service providers address auditor-identified issues in SOC2 reports. Journal of Information Systems. Forthcoming. (DOI 10.2308/ISYS-2021-016)

Posted: 16 Jan 2019 Last revised: 2 Nov 2022

Mark Sheldon

John Carroll University

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Reza Barkhi

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine how an IT service provider’s persuasive communication related to SOC2
report findings influences management’s (i.e., user-entities’) perceptions of the outsourced
services. Within SOC2 reports, service providers can attempt to influence management’s
impressions of auditor-identified issues and, due to the report’s limited audience, also follow-up
with management about these issues. Using dual-process theories of persuasion, we predict the
type of persuasion used by a service provider in a SOC2 report (contend or concede), and its
consistency with follow-up persuasive appeals (contend or concede), will influence
management’s perceptions of the services provided. In an experiment, only when the service
provider first contends the auditor’s findings does a follow-up concession (rather than
contention) result in more favorable perceptions. Persuasion tactics also influence management’s
processing of risk factors, which impact their trust in the service. Thus, IT service providers’
initial and follow-up persuasive communications influence management’s assessment of SOC2
auditor-identified issues.

Keywords: persuasion, dual-process theories, SOC2, information technology outsourcing, data privacy

Suggested Citation:

Sheldon, Mark and Bhattacharjee, Sudip and Barkhi, Reza, The Impact of Persuasive Response Sequence and Consistency when IT Service Providers Address Auditor-Identified Issues in SOC2 Reports (September 1, 2022). Sheldon, M. D., S. Bhattacharjee, and R. Barkhi. 2022. The impact of persuasive response sequence and consistency when IT service providers address auditor-identified issues in SOC2 reports. Journal of Information Systems. Forthcoming. (DOI 10.2308/ISYS-2021-016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315396
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies