Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Offshore Trading Activities and Audit Fees: A Textual Approach

Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019 Last revised: 30 Jun 2020

Janus Jian Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Yun Ke

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Shuo Li

Western Washington University - Department of Accounting; Western Washington University

Yanan Zhang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 17, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how auditors’ pricing decisions are affected by their clients’ offshore activities, which are comprehensively measured through a textual analysis technique. We find that offshore activities are positively associated with audit fees, suggesting that offshore activities are likely to increase client firm’s business risk and/or the extent of client complexity. This main finding is robust to using alternative measures of offshore activities and applying methods to mitigate the omitted correlated variables problem. We also find that auditors charge higher audit fees only to firms with inputs produced by its own assets overseas not to firms that buy inputs produced by local firms oversea. Moreover, the association between offshore activities and audit fees is more pronounced for offshore activities that are in countries with high trading centrality, high income, or high political stability, for Big 4 auditors, or for auditors with industry expertise. In additional analyses, we find that offshore activities are positively associated with tax fees, audit effort and audit quality. This evidence suggests that both client business risk and client complexity are the plausible channels through which offshore activities affect audit fees.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Offshore Activities, Perceived Audit Risk, Audit Effort

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Janus Jian and Ke, Yun and Li, Shuo and Li, Shuo and Zhang, Yanan, Offshore Trading Activities and Audit Fees: A Textual Approach (December 17, 2019). Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3316945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R Lucas
Understanding business cycles
Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series on Public Policy , volume 5 , p. 7 - 29 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J D Lyon , M W Maher
The importance of business risk in setting audit fees: evidence from cases of client misconduct
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 133 - 151 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Z V Palmrose
Audit fees and auditor size: further evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 110 Posted: 1986
Crossref
R J Richmond
Trade network centrality and currency risk premia
The Journal of Finance , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 1315 - 1361 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,178
RANK
605,632
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies