Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Save Money to Lose Money? Implications of Opting Out of a Voluntary Audit Review for a Firm’s Cost of Debt

European Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2019 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Vlad-Andrei Porumb

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Yasemin Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu

University of Groningen

Shuo Wang

University of Edinburgh

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: May 27, 2022

Abstract

An audit review (AR) is a mechanism used by boards to assess the quality of interim financial reports on a timely basis. In Canada, the AR is voluntary, with listed firms mandated to disclose when they choose not to purchase additional audit verification. Given the relatively low cost of an AR, opting out of it can be regarded as a negative signal, especially in the context of lenders’ sensitivity to downside risk. Using a sample of 7,585 firm-year observations from 1,616 public firms in Canada over the period 2004-2015, we document that firms without a voluntary AR have a higher cost of debt than firms with an AR. Furthermore, after firms opt out of the AR, the increase in the cost of debt is accompanied by a rise in discretionary abnormal accruals and managers’ stock-based compensation. Moreover, no-AR firms are more likely to reduce post-switch private borrowing and have lower equity analyst following. Our study is the first to document that although listed borrowers that opt out of an AR have a higher cost of debt financing, they are concurrently able to engage in more earnings management and grant their managers higher stock-based compensation because of lower external monitoring.

Keywords: audit review, quarterly reports, cost of debt, public debt, private debt

Suggested Citation:

Porumb, Vlad-Andrei and Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu, Yasemin and Wang, Shuo and Lobo, Gerald J., Save Money to Lose Money? Implications of Opting Out of a Voluntary Audit Review for a Firm’s Cost of Debt (May 27, 2022). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
K Allee , T Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately-Held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting. The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
B Akins
Financial reporting quality and uncertainty about credit risk among ratings agencies
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,881
RANK
454,090
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies