Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Partners with Greater Self-Control Perform Higher-Quality Audits and Achieve Greater Career Success?

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3324121

Posted: 20 Feb 2019 Last revised: 14 Jan 2021

Patrick J. Hurley

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Jukka Karjalainen

University of Eastern Finland - Business School

Amin S. Sofla

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy

Mikko P. Zerni

University of Vaasa - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 28, 2019

Abstract

Trait self-control – the ability to regulate behavior, thoughts, and emotions, especially in pursuit of goals – is important in achieving success in a variety of situations. However, little is known about whether or how individual audit partners’ traits and characteristics can influence audit quality or other outcomes. We combine survey and archival data to examine whether and how Big 4 audit partners’ trait self-control relates to audit quality, client portfolio size, and compensation. We find that trait self-control is predictive of higher audit quality (decreased discretionary accruals and increased probability of issuing a modified audit opinion) and of partners having larger client portfolios and higher compensation. In additional analyses we rule out that this is a selection effect whereby partners with higher self-control audit better clients. Instead, our findings suggest that audit partners’ level of trait self-control is an important determinant of audit quality and audit partners’ career success.

Keywords: audit quality, client portfolio, compensation, audit partner, self-control, trait

Suggested Citation:

Hurley, Patrick J. and Karjalainen, Jukka and Salimi Sofla, Amin and Zerni, Mikko P., Do Audit Partners with Greater Self-Control Perform Higher-Quality Audits and Achieve Greater Career Success? (January 28, 2019). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3324121, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324121
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies