Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Auditor Industry Specialization on the Retention and Growth of Audit Clients

Accounting though Journal Ain-Shams University, Faculty of Commerce. Volume No.1, year 20, ISSN: 2356-8402.

36 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019 Last revised: 10 Jun 2019

Mohamed Samy Eldeeb

MSA University

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Date Written: January 29, 2016

Abstract

The effect of the economic financial crisis worldwide has increased the need for auditors to provide a high quality services to their clients. An important element considered by clients for selecting their auditors is whether the audit firm has specialization in particular industry. Audit firm industry specialization provides clients with value for money services to help management achieve efficiency and effectiveness in their operations. Other benefits for audit firms may include increased market share, audit tenure, better financial reporting and less earnings management, audit quality with less restatements of financial information, appropriate audit fees, less exposure to litigation risk, less enforceable action by supervisory bodies and ability to compete in highly competitive environment. Specialization was also seen as critical for the survival of the auditing profession.

This research analyzes the effects of audit firm industry specialization on the retention of the audit firm and growth in its business. Factors such as whether the firm is a big 4, with international affiliation, local firm, type of industry and growth were also studied for audit firm retention and growth. The sample studied includes the top 100 publicly held companies’ annual reports in the Egyptian stock market during the period 2007-2011 which are analyzed to determine the audit firms’ retention and growth. The results support that industry specialization has an important effect on the auditor’s retention especially for industry where capital investment is significant such as building, construction, financial services and housing and real estate. Big 4 audit firms retained their clients due to their industry specialization and brand name. The findings provided evidence that good knowledge of accounting & auditing standards resulted in audit firms with international affiliation competing with big 4 for clients’ retention & growth in business. The result also showed some evidence that the auditing profession in Egypt is dominated by the big 4 and the Central Audit Organization.


Suggested Citation:

Eldeeb, Mohamed Samy and Hegazy, Mohamed A., The Impact of Auditor Industry Specialization on the Retention and Growth of Audit Clients (January 29, 2016). Accounting though Journal Ain-Shams University, Faculty of Commerce. Volume No.1, year 20, ISSN: 2356-8402., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley , T Hines
Auditor-Client Interactions in the Changed UK Regulatory Environment-A Revised Grounded Theory Model
International Journal of Auditing , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 36 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Carcello , A Nagy
Client size, auditor specialization, and fraudulent financial reporting
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 668 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,719
RANK
196,412
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies