Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Litigation Risk and Auditor Choice

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 14 Nov 2023

Leonard Leye Li

UNSW Sydney

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business

Jeffrey Coulton

UNSW Business School

Date Written: June 15, 2023

Abstract

Our study investigates the causal relationship between managerial litigation risk and auditor choice decisions. Exploiting the staggered adoption of universal demand (UD) laws at the state level in the United States, we use a stacked regression approach and find a lower propensity for affected firms to switch to higher-quality auditors after the exogenous reduction of managerial litigation risk. This result supports the managerial entrenchment hypothesis that lower litigation risk leads to more managerial entrenchment, which allows managers to be opaque in order to enjoy private benefits. This negative effect is mitigated for firms with more audit committee industry expertise and for firms that are more reliant on external finance. Our study contributes to our understanding of how regulatory changes that have an impact on agency problems affect firms' demand for auditing.

Keywords: Auditor Switching; Auditor Choice; Audit Fees; Cost of Equity; Derivative Lawsuits; Shareholder Litigation; Universal Demand Laws

JEL Classification: K20; M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Leonard Leye and Monroe, Gary S. and Coulton, Jeffrey J., Managerial Litigation Risk and Auditor Choice (June 15, 2023). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3326484
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies