Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Continuous Auditing and Risk-Based Audit Planning

31 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2019 Last revised: 31 Aug 2020

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Christine Georgi

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Alexander Schmidt

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: 20 8, 2020

Abstract

Due to rapidly changing risks in companies, a continuous alignment of internal audit activities with the relevant risk is required. Continuous auditing (CA) is one possible way to meet these requirements. Specifically, the internal audit function (IAF) could use CA as a methodology in order to add a continuous perspective to their risk assessment. This study examines factors associated with the use of CA information in IAF’s risk-based audit planning (RBAP). We use survey data from 264 chief audit executives to address our research question. Consistent with our expectations, we find several factors having a significant positive influence on the use of information from CA in RBAP. From an IAF’s perspective, these factors include the importance of data analytics, the collaboration with audit committee and external auditor, as well as the use of IAF’s results for fraud prevention. Furthermore, our additional analysis presents various effects of CA on potential outputs of the IAF. Finally, we discuss the implications of these findings for research and practice.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Internal Audit Function, Continuous Auditing, Risk-Based Audit Plan

JEL Classification: M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Georgi, Christine and Schmidt, Alexander, Continuous Auditing and Risk-Based Audit Planning (20 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3330570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3330570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,873
RANK
30,237
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies