Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Professionalism of Auditors and Professional Ethics on Consideration of Materiality Levels (Empirical Study on Public Accounting Firm East Jakarta)

International Journal of Social Science and Public Policy (IJSSPP), Vol. 1, Issue 1, January 2019

10 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2019

Budi Tri Rahardjo

Universitas Krisnadwipayana

Umar Farouk

Universitas Krisnadwipayana

Date Written: January 31, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the effect of auditor professionalism and professional ethics on consideration of materiality levels. The study was conducted taken from 30% of the total KAP population in the East Jakarta region, which amounted to 40 KAP registered in IAPI in 2017 with a range of 2-10 auditors. The sampling technique uses purposive sampling, which is to determine the sample with certain considerations which are considered to be able to provide maximum data so that 65 copies of the questionnaire were obtained with the number of 10 KAPs registered in IAPI 2017 and analyzed using multiple linear regression.

The results of the study indicate that auditor professionalism and professional ethics influence the consideration of materiality levels. This is because professionalism relates to education, experience and permission to practice and professional ethics related to the professional code of ethics.


Keywords: Professionalism Auditors, Professional Ethics and Materiality

JEL Classification: M41, H25

Suggested Citation:

Rahardjo, Budi Tri and Farouk, Umar, Effect of Professionalism of Auditors and Professional Ethics on Consideration of Materiality Levels (Empirical Study on Public Accounting Firm East Jakarta) (January 31, 2019). International Journal of Social Science and Public Policy (IJSSPP), Vol. 1, Issue 1, January 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3331841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,232
RANK
286,507
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies