Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prepare for Takeoff: Improving Asset Measurement and Audit Quality with Drone-Enabled Inventory Audit Procedures

Review of Accounting Studies

38 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2019 Last revised: 26 Jun 2020

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Scott A. Emett

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 20, 2020

Abstract

Auditors increasingly employ technologies to improve audit quality. Using a design science approach, we examine whether using drones and automated counting software can improve audit quality and thereby improve financial reporting. We assess three dimensions of audit quality—efficiency, effectiveness, and quality of audit documentation. We provide evidence that auditors can perform inventory counts with these technologies much more efficiently than they can with manual techniques, decreasing count time in our study from 681 hours to 19 hours. At the same time, auditors can maintain or improve audit effectiveness with these technologies, decreasing error rates in our study from 0.15% to 0.03%, while providing higher-quality audit documentation. Interviews with national-level partners and audit standard setters highlight impediments to adopting these technologies, including firm concerns about being first movers combined with inability of standard setters to provide guidance at a pace that matches the pace of technological development. Collectively, our results suggest that technology-enabled inventory audits can improve audit quality, and further regulatory guidance on using such technologies would enhance adoption.

Keywords: Drones, Automated Software, Inventory Counting, Inventory, Design Science

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49, O30, O31

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Margaret H. and Emett, Scott A. and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., Prepare for Takeoff: Improving Asset Measurement and Audit Quality with Drone-Enabled Inventory Audit Procedures (June 20, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3335204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3335204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Appelbaum , R A Nehmer
Using drones in internal and external audits: An exploratory framework
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 113 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Austin , T Carpenter , M H Christ , C Nielson
The Data Analytics Journey: Interactions among Auditors, Managers, Regulation, and Technology. Working Paper University of Georgia Posted: 2018
Dereck Barr-Pulliam , Helen L. Brown-Liburd , Kerri Ann Sanderson
The Effects of the Internal Control Opinion and Use of Audit Data Analytics on Perceptions of Audit Quality, Assurance, and Auditor Negligence
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 41(1): 25-48 Pages: 54 Posted: 21 Aug 2017 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W G Bennis , J Toole
How business schools lost their way
Harvard Business Review , volume 83 , issue 5 , p. 96 - 104 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,840
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,313
RANK
21,234
29 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies