Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Friends in Low Places: How Peer Advice and Expected Leadership Feedback Affect Staff Auditors’ Willingness to Speak Up

Accounting, Organizations and Society, 87(8):1-16.

52 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2019 Last revised: 12 Feb 2021

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Chad A. Proell

University of North Texas- Ryan College of Business -Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 26, 2020

Abstract

Junior auditors collect the bulk of audit evidence, yet they do not always speak up to communicate potentially important audit issues. Such inappropriate “voice” decisions can endanger audit quality. We examine whether and how staff auditors influence each other in making voice decisions. First, a survey provides descriptive evidence that staff auditors consult their peers for advice on whether to speak up. Next, two experiments provide evidence that voice advice among peers at the staff level can be problematic. We find that staff auditors consistently underestimate the importance of raising issues compared to their supervisors, and they rely on social cues that are not diagnostic of issue importance in giving voice advice to peers. Finally, we predict and find that staff auditors tend to follow peer advice when it confirms their initial stance, and that an expectation of high (versus low) quality supervisor feedback increases their willingness to speak up. Most importantly, we find that contradictory peer advice only influences staff auditors’ willingness to speak up when leadership feedback is not expected to be of high quality. Together these results indicate that staff auditors seek out and follow voice advice from their peers, but appropriate leadership feedback practices can mitigate the negative impact of peer advice on upward communication.

Keywords: Audit teams, information sharing, feedback, employee voice, experiment, survey, peer advice

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Kadous, Kathryn and Proell, Chad A., Friends in Low Places: How Peer Advice and Expected Leadership Feedback Affect Staff Auditors’ Willingness to Speak Up (May 26, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, 87(8):1-16., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3342787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3342787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Firm's System of Quality Control Posted: 2012
T C Bauer , Estep
One team or two? Investigating relationship quality between auditors and IT specialists: Implications for audit team identity and the audit process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 2147 - 2177 Posted: 2019
Crossref
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The effect of the social mismatch between staff auditors and client management on the collection of audit evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M H Birnbaum
How to show that 9 > 221: Collect judgments in a between-subjects design
Psychological Methods , volume 4 , p. 243 - 249 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Bart Dierynck , Kathryn Kadous , Christian P. H. Peters
Learning in the Auditing Profession: A Framework and Future Directions
64 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 916
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jacobo Gomez-Conde , Ernesto Lopez-Valeiras , Ricardo Malagueño , José Carlos Tiomatsu Oyadomari
Quality of performance metrics, informal peer monitoring, and goal commitment
Accounting & Finance · 52 Pages · Posted: 9 Feb 2022 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kai A. Bauch , Florian Behrend , Christoph Feichter
Employees’ Strategic Advice Seeking: The Role of Performance Evaluation and Performance Measurement System Precision
48 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2023 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 237
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tina Carpenter , Margaret H. Christ , Miranda Hugie
Stay In Your Own Lane: Navigating the Challenges of Upward Knowledge Sharing in Hierarchical Audit Teams
50 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,132
RANK
211,623
6 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies