Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing Strategies in the Light of Audit Tendering

60 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2019 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Matthias Baumann

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Thorben Tiedemann

University of Hamburg

Date Written: February 26, 2019

Abstract

This study empirically investigates the effects of mandatory audit tendering on audit pricing. Specifically, we examine audit pricing strategies potentially applied by auditors when facing a tender for the upcoming period, also explicitly considering the type of auditor. Our study is motivated by the recent implementation of mandatory audit tendering in the European Union. Using a sample of 1,028 firm-year observations related to companies listed in the German Prime and General Standard, our results suggest that auditors facing a tender for the upcoming period charge higher audit fees than auditors not facing a tender for the upcoming period and that this fee effect is mainly attributable to Big4 auditors. In contrast, no significant difference in audit fees is observable for non-Big4 auditors that face a tender for the upcoming period compared to those that do not. In additional analyses, we do not find that auditors facing a tender for the upcoming period provide higher audit quality than auditors not facing a tender, irrespective of the type of auditor. Overall, our findings suggest that Big4 auditors apply strategies focusing on audit pricing, while non-Big4 auditors seem to use other approaches in order to be retained. Our study is, to the best of our knowledge, the first study that examines the effect of audit tenders for upcoming periods on audit pricing.

Keywords: audit tendering, audit pricing strategies, audit fees, audit regulation

JEL Classification: L1, L11, M4, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Baumann, Matthias and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Tiedemann, Thorben, Pricing Strategies in the Light of Audit Tendering (February 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3342408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3342408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Aktg
mit allen späteren Anpassungen Posted: 1965-09-06
A Allam , N Ghattas , A Kotb , M K Eldaly
Audit tendering in the UK: A review of stakeholders' views
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 23 Posted: 2017
M F Baumann , N V S Ratzinger-Sakel
Erforderliche Prüferwechsel und Ausschreibungen bei Unternehmen von öffentlichem Interesse (PIE) , volume 72 , p. 254 - 260 Posted: 2019
Bbc
Audit market competition plans unveiled Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,742
RANK
173,555
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies