Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Mandatory Non-Financial (Risk) Disclosures: The Moderating Role of Audit Firm and Partner Characteristics

Forthcoming, The International Journal of Accounting

63 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2019 Last revised: 28 Jan 2021

Saverio Bozzolan

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Antti Miihkinen

University of Turku - Turku School of Economics; Aalto University School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

Risk disclosures are among the most important types of nonfinancial information valued by investors. Risk disclosures are mostly narrative and proprietary in nature; consequently, their accuracy and assurance is highly important to prevent disclosures from becoming boilerplate and losing their relevance. By exploiting the unique features of a setting where risk disclosure is mandatory and under a positive assurance requirement, we investigate whether the quality of audited risk disclosures is associated with the type of audit firm (Big-4 vs. non-Big-4), the characteristics of the audit firm, and the attributes of the audit partner. Our results show an association between risk disclosure quality and auditors, but not in the expected ways. After the enforcement of a regulation requiring a detailed description of risks in the Operating and Financial Review (OFR) and a positive assurance of external audit over these disclosures, we do not document any significant Big-4 effect. The quality of risk disclosures is associated with the attributes of the audit partner, namely, familiarity with different client risk disclosures, industry expertise, and gender, independently from affiliation with a Big-4 audit firm. Along these lines, we extend recent evidence on the audit partner effects in the assurance of nonfinancial narrative information.

Keywords: Non-Financial Information, Risk Disclosure, Positive Assurance, Audit Partner Characteristics

Suggested Citation:

Bozzolan, Saverio and Miihkinen, Antti and Miihkinen, Antti, The Quality of Mandatory Non-Financial (Risk) Disclosures: The Moderating Role of Audit Firm and Partner Characteristics (October 1, 2019). Forthcoming, The International Journal of Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3342703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3342703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Al-Hadi , M M Hasan , G Taylor , M Hossain , G Richardson
Market risk disclosures and investment efficiency: International evidence from the Gulf Cooperation Council financial firms
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 349 - 393 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , K Al-Yahyaee
Ruling family political connections and risk reporting: Evidence from the GCC
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 504 - 524 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,223
RANK
190,991
6 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies