Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Changes in Audit Quality and Firm Value: Evidence From Investors’ Reaction to the Revelation of Limiting Liability Agreements in Audit Engagement Letters

56 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

Henock Louis

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Dahlia Robinson

University of South Florida

Amy X. Sun

University of Houston

Date Written: March 5, 2019

Abstract

We examine the value of changes in U.S. investors’ perceptions of audit quality by analyzing the market reaction to the first public revelation of liability limiting agreements (LLAs) in audit engagement letters of publicly traded firms. The revelation of the existence of LLAs in audit engagement letters of publicly traded firms results in substantial losses in their values and lower shareholders’ approval of their auditors. Consistent with investors’ reaction to the revelation being associated with concerns about audit quality, the loss in value is strongly related to clients’ incentives and opportunity to misreport. Specifically, the loss is more pronounced when a firm’s earnings quality is low, the firm’s recent reported earnings barely meet the average analyst earnings forecast, the firm has recently issued stocks, and the managers have recently sold stocks on their own accounts. The loss is also attenuated when outsiders constitute a super-majority of the firm’s board of directors. Overall, the evidence suggests that investors attribute a substantial premium to external audits and that investors’ negative perception of audit quality significantly increases issuers’ cost of capital and, consequently, adversely affects firm value.

Keywords: Value of external audits; Liability limiting agreement; Auditor approval

JEL Classification: M42, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Louis, Henock and Robinson, Dahlia and Sun, Amy X., Perceived Changes in Audit Quality and Firm Value: Evidence From Investors’ Reaction to the Revelation of Limiting Liability Agreements in Audit Engagement Letters (March 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3347397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Chan , S Pae
An analysis of the economic consequences of the proportionate liability rule
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 457 - 480 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Dao , S Mishra , K Raghunandan
Auditor tenure and shareholder ratification of the auditor
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 314 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Dee , A Lulseged , T Zhang
Client stock market reaction to PCAOB sanctions against a Big 4 auditor
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 263 - 291 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,013
RANK
142,302
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies