Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Judge Ideology on Auditors’ Litigation Risk: Evidence from Auditors’ Behaviors

63 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2019

Liuchuang Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: March 16, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how judge ideology affects auditors’ litigation risk. Using the appointing president’s political affiliation to measure federal judge ideology, we document that audit fees charged to auditees locating in jurisdictions of circuit courts with more Democratic judges are higher. We also document that the auditees locating in jurisdictions of circuit courts with more Democratic judges are more likely to receive going concern opinions. We do not find meaningful impact of judge ideology on audit quality. We interpret our results as that judge ideology is an important factor in the legal environment that affects auditors’ behavior and auditors believe that the impact of judge ideology is resulted from political consideration rather than from interpretation of auditors’ professionalism.

Keywords: judge ideology, audit litigation risk, auditor behavior

JEL Classification: k40

Suggested Citation:

Li, Liuchuang and Qi, Baolei and Zhang, Ping, The Impacts of Judge Ideology on Auditors’ Litigation Risk: Evidence from Auditors’ Behaviors (March 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3351123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3351123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
AICPA). 1983. Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No 47
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the united states and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T Bell , W Landsman , D Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Blay
Independence threats, litigation risk, and the auditor's decision process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 759 - 789 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,916
RANK
258,444
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies