Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Machine Learning with Gradient Boosting and its Application to the Big N Audit Quality Effect

USC-INET Research Paper No. 19-05

35 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2019 Last revised: 17 Mar 2019

Jui-Chung Yang

Department of Economics, National Tsing Hua University

Hui-Ching Chuang

National Taipei University - Department of Statistics

Chung-Ming Kuan

Department of Finance, National Taiwan University

Date Written: July 28, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we study the double machine learning (DML) approach of Chernozhukovet al. (2018) for estimating average treatment effect and apply this approach to examine the Big N audit quality effect in the accounting literature. This approach relies on machine learning methods and is suitable when a high dimensional nuisance function with many covariates is present in the model. This approach does not suffer from the“regularization bias” when a learning method with a proper convergence rate is used.We demonstrate by simulations that, for the DML approach, the gradient boosting method is fairly robust and to be preferred to other methods, such as regression tree,random forest, support vector regression machine, and the conventional Nadaraya-Watson nonparametric estimator. We then apply the DML approach with gradient boosting to estimate the Big N effect. We find that Big N auditors have a positive effect on audit quality and that this effect is not only statistically significant but also economically important. We further show that, in contrast to the results of propensity score matching, our estimates of said effect are quite robust to the hyper-parameters in the gradient boosting algorithm

Keywords: Audit Quality, Average Treatment Effect, Big N Effect, Double Machine Learning, Gradient Boosting, Performance-Matched Discretionary Accruals

JEL Classification: C14, C31, M42

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Jui-Chung and Chuang, Hui-Ching and Kuan, Chung-Ming, Double Machine Learning with Gradient Boosting and its Application to the Big N Audit Quality Effect (July 28, 2019). USC-INET Research Paper No. 19-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3351314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3351314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,825
RANK
132,602
10 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies