Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Provision of Non-Audit Services Affect Auditor Independence and Audit Quality? Evidence from Bahrain

• Khasharmeh, H. A. and Desoky, A. M. (2018). Does the Provision of Non-Audit Services Affect Auditor Independence and Audit Quality? Evidence from Bahrain, Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 25-55. (DOI: https://doi.org/10.21315/aamjaf2018.14.1.2

31 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Abdelmohsen Desoky

UoB

Hussein Ali Khasharmeh

University of Bahrain

Date Written: March 18, 2019

Abstract

The main aim of this research is to investigate perceptions of respondents (auditors, accountants and financial managers) on the effect of provision of non-audit services (NAS) to audit clients companies upon auditor independence and audit quality. This study expands on previous work done on the effects of providing non-audit services upon auditors’ independence and audit quality in Bahrain, which considered as an important subject for both auditing firms and auditing profession. This paper provides insights on the factors which explain the impact of the provision of non-audit services upon auditor independence and audit quality in Bahrain. To achieve the objectives of the research, a questionnaire was prepared and disseminated to a sample of 250 respondents. The results indicate that respondents are supporting the idea that “independence of auditor is impaired with providing non-audit service”. Kruskal-Wallis Test revealed that only respondents’ occupation is associated with their perceptions. Providing empirical evidence on this issue within the Bahraini environment, as a member of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, may add a new dimension to the accounting and auditing literature. As the study analysed only one country (Bahrain); generalisation of the results might be a limitation. Future research studies should consider other countries in the region and to include respondents in other non-listed companies with more recent data which may lead to different results.

Keywords: non-audit services, auditor independence, Bahrain, audit client, audit fees, Bahrain Bourse

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Desoky, Abdelmohsen and Khasharmeh, Hussein Ali, Does the Provision of Non-Audit Services Affect Auditor Independence and Audit Quality? Evidence from Bahrain (March 18, 2019). • Khasharmeh, H. A. and Desoky, A. M. (2018). Does the Provision of Non-Audit Services Affect Auditor Independence and Audit Quality? Evidence from Bahrain, Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 25-55. (DOI: https://doi.org/10.21315/aamjaf2018.14.1.2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Abdul Wahab , E Zain , M Abdul Rahman , R
Political connections: A threat to auditor independence
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2015
Q Albaqali , G Kukreja
The factors influencing auditor independence: The perceptions of the auditors in Bahrain
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 369 - 382 Posted: 2017
P Alleyne , D Devonish , P Alleyne
Perception of auditor independence in Barbados
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 621 - 635 Posted: 2006
F Al-Mubarak
The usefulness of corporate annual reports to investment analysts in Saudi Arabia Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,215
RANK
135,200
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies