Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Quantifying Uncertainty: Examining the Effects of Sensitivity Analysis and Audit Materiality Disclosures on Investors’ Judgments and Decisions

42 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Erin Hamilton

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 22, 2019

Abstract

The amount of estimation uncertainty contained in financial statement items may be obscured from investors, given that all estimates, regardless of their imprecision, are reported as precise figures on the face of the financial statements. Our study examines two disclosures expected to help investors evaluate the reliability of subjective fair value estimates: a quantitative sensitivity analysis (QSA) and the auditor’s quantitative materiality threshold. Using an experiment, we predict and find that investors judge the reliability of a reported estimate to be higher and are more willing to invest in the company when a QSA disclosure is indicative of low sensitivity (i.e., greater precision) compared to high sensitivity (i.e., greater imprecision), but only if the auditor’s materiality threshold is also disclosed. When materiality is not disclosed, investors fail to recognize differences in reliability between the two levels of sensitivity, even though the amount of imprecision in the low sensitivity condition represents a fraction of materiality, while in the high sensitivity condition, this amount exceeds materiality multiple times over. Furthermore, when both disclosures are absent and only a qualitative description of sensitivity is provided — as required by current standards — investors respond to the ambiguous disclosure by decreasing their willingness to invest. The results of our study should be informative to accounting and auditing standard setters as they continue to consider the types of disclosures that may help investors understand the most complex and subjective aspects of financial reporting.

Keywords: audit reporting; disclosures; estimation uncertainty; fair value estimates; materiality; sensitivity analysis.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Hamilton, Erin and Messier Jr, William F., The Importance of Quantifying Uncertainty: Examining the Effects of Sensitivity Analysis and Audit Materiality Disclosures on Investors’ Judgments and Decisions (March 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3358581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures. AU-C Section 540 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Allen , R W Preiss
Comparing the persuasiveness of narrative and statistical evidence using meta-analysis
Communication Research Reports , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 131 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T L Boles , D M Messick
A reverse outcome bias: The influence of multiple reference points on the evaluation of outcomes and decisions
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 262 - 275 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,111
RANK
97,514
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies