Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Systemizing the Challenges of Auditing Blockchain-Based Assets

Pimentel, E., Boulianne, E., Eskandari, S. & Clark, J. (2020) Systematizing the Challenges of Blockchain-Based Assets. Journal of Information Systems. Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-007

45 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019 Last revised: 8 Oct 2020

Erica Pimentel

Concordia University, John Molson School of Business, Department of Accountancy

Emilio Boulianne

Concordia University, Quebec - John Molson School of Business

Shayan Eskandari

Concordia University, Quebec - Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science

Jeremy Clark

Concordia University, Quebec - Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

Presently, auditing firms are hesitant to accept mandates from companies that hold a significant amount of cryptoassets, primarily because the blockchain sector introduces novel, technically sophisticated and risky propositions that auditors are unequipped to handle. Abrupt recusals by auditors operating in this sector have led to several enterprises being placed on cease trade by securities regulators for failure to produce audited financial statements on time, thus impeding these companies from raising capital and bringing new investment to fund innovation in this space. Through an iterative process of interviews with senior accounting professionals, structured brainstorming among a multidisciplinary team of accountants and blockchain experts, and a focus group with experienced auditors, we critically analyze the purported roadblocks to auditing blockchain firms and map them to traditional auditing practices. We urge auditors to reconsider their resistance to the blockchain sector by demonstrating that providing an audit opinion is challenging but not insurmountable.

Keywords: Blockchain, Financial Audit, Cryptoassets, Accounting Firms, Auditors, Cryptocurrencies

Suggested Citation:

Pimentel, Erica and Boulianne, Emilio and Eskandari, Shayan and Clark, Jeremy, Systemizing the Challenges of Auditing Blockchain-Based Assets (October 1, 2020). Pimentel, E., Boulianne, E., Eskandari, S. & Clark, J. (2020) Systematizing the Challenges of Blockchain-Based Assets. Journal of Information Systems. Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P W Abreu , M Aparicio , C J Costa
Blockchain Technology in the Auditing Environment. 13th Iberian Conference on Information Systems and Technologies (CISTI) Posted: 2018
Crossref
T D , C Estep
One team or two? Investigating relationship quality between auditors and IT specialists: Implications for audit team identity and the audit process
Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, AICPA. 2020. Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technology. Available at , volume 36 , p. 2142 - 2177 Posted: 2019
G Bdo. ; D , Paul
The financial auditing of distributed ledgers, blockchain and cryptocurrencies
Journal of Financial Transformation , volume 46 Posted: 2017
C Carter , C Spence
Being a successful professional: An exploration of who makes partner in the Big 4
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Jeremy Clark , Didem Demirag , Mahsa Moosavi
SoK: Demystifying Stablecoins
Communications of the ACM, Forthcoming · 21 Pages · Posted: 17 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 6 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 908
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeremy Clark , Didem Demirag , Seyedehmahsa Moosavi
Demystifying Stablecoins
Queue , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 39 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Erica Pimentel , Emilio Boulianne
Blockchain in Accounting Research and Practice: Current Trends and Future Opportunities*
Accounting Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 325 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Emilio Boulianne , Mélissa Fortin
Risks and Benefits of Initial Coin Offerings: Evidence from impak Finance, a Regulated ICO*
Accounting Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 413 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,027
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,679
RANK
50,478
11 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies