Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Inter-Organizational Vertical Mobility and Its Consequences for Audit Quality

Posted: 23 Apr 2019

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

Qiang Cao

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Lele Chen

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Nanwei Hu

China University of Mining and Technology (CUMT)

Date Written: March 25, 2019

Abstract

Using a set of unique databases from China, with employment history of auditors, details of audit engagement partners and financial reporting quality, we examine the performance of auditors that moved up to another higher-tier audit firm. We show that the audit quality of signing auditors with vertical (upward) inter-organizational mobility is significantly better than that for signing auditors that do not have such vertical mobility. Vertically mobile auditors also have a higher propensity of becoming partners when their limited liability audit firms transform to special general partnerships. To control for self-selection bias, we further estimate the unexpected component of a move and show that all our results still hold. Overall, this paper provides evidence that auditors with vertical mobility perform better on their new jobs when compared to those that move to audit firms of similar status or never change firms.

Keywords: Signing Auditor, Mobility, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Cao, Qiang and Chen, Lele and Hu, Nanwei, Auditors’ Inter-Organizational Vertical Mobility and Its Consequences for Audit Quality (March 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359362
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies