Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Same Provider for Financial Statement Audit and Assurance of Extended External Reports: Choices and Consequences

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

54 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2019 Last revised: 28 Mar 2022

Meiting Lu

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: March 10, 2022

Abstract

Independent assurance of extended external reports (EER) is one of the most significant trends in today’s global assurance profession. When companies decide to purchase third-party assurance on EER, they need to decide whether to engage their financial statement auditor or a different assurance provider. We examine factors that impact this decision, and the consequences of this decision on financial statement audit quality and cost. We find that independence concerns are associated with companies choosing different EER assurance providers from their incumbent financial statement auditors, while providers’ expertise in EER assurance and the recent trend of integrating non-financial information into the annual report promote the use of the same provider. We further find some evidence that companies with the same provider attesting to both financial statements and EER benefit from having higher financial statement audit quality without paying significantly higher audit fees.

Keywords: audit, assurance, audit quality, assurance expertise, independence, extended external report

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Meiting and Simnett, Roger and Zhou, Shan, Using the Same Provider for Financial Statement Audit and Assurance of Extended External Reports: Choices and Consequences (March 10, 2022). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Does mandated disclosure induce a structural change in the determinants of nonaudit service purchases?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 76 Posted: 2011
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Angloamerican
Response to the invitation to comment on the Exposure Drafts of the revised Ethical Standard and ISAs (UK) Posted: 2019-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
780
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,687
RANK
73,815
3 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies