Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Substitution Role of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Audit Quality in Explaining Audit Report Lag

Acc. Fin. Review 4 (1) 28 – 37 (2019)

10 Pages Posted: 1 May 2019

Husaini Saini Hasballah

Bengkulu University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Saiful

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fitrawati Ilyas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 18, 2019

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to examine the relationship between audit committee effectiveness on Audit Report Lag (ARL), and the moderating effect of audit quality on the relationship between audit committee effectiveness and ARL. Methodology/Technique – 109 non-financial Indonesian listed companies are examined from 2012 to 2016. The data is analysed using multivariate regression analysis.

Findings – The results show that audit committee effectiveness negatively affects ARL. This indicates that an effective audit committee can accelerate the delivery of audit reports. The results on the interaction between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality also negatively affects ARL. These results indicate that audit quality strengthens the influence of audit committees on the timeliness of financial reporting by reducing audit report lag.

Novelty – The results show that there is a relationship of substitution between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality (Big-4) on ARL. The results of this study are consistent with agency theory which states that the implementation of corporate governance, such as an effective audit committee and audit quality, can improve the quality of financial reports.

Keywords: Audit Committee Effectiveness; Audit Quality; Audit Report Lag; Agency Theory

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hasballah, Husaini Saini and , Saiful and Ilyas, Fitrawati, The Substitution Role of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Audit Quality in Explaining Audit Report Lag (March 18, 2019). Acc. Fin. Review 4 (1) 28 – 37 (2019) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3362363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
S N Abdullah
Board Composition, Audit Committee and Timeliness of Corporate Financial Reports In Malaysia
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 45 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , A Masli , C Stefaniak
The association between the characteristics of audit committee accounting experts, audit committee chairs, and financial reporting timeliness
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Acc. Fin. Review , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 37 Posted: 2019
Crossref
H A E Afify
Determinants of audit report lag: Does implementing corporate governance have any impact? Empirical evidence from Egypt
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,864
RANK
109,776
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies