Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Big-4 Firms Improve Audit Quality

Forthcoming, Management Science

49 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019

Limei Che

OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University; Universityof South-Eastern Norway: School of Business; Peking University HSBC Business School

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

Date Written: April 3, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies whether and how Big-4 firms provide higher quality audits than non-Big-4 firms. Specifically, we first examine a Big-4 effect and then explore three sources of the Big-4 effect. To test the Big-4 effect, we use a unique dataset of individual audit partners for a large sample of private companies and employ a novel research design exploiting the fact that auditees may follow the auditor who switches affiliation from a non-Big-4 to a Big-4 firm. Thus, we compare audit quality and audit fees of the same partner-auditee pairs before and after the switch. The results show that the Big-4 effect exists in the private-firm segment. More importantly, we find evidence for three sources of the Big-4 effect. First, Big-4 firms are able to recruit non-Big-4 partners who deliver higher audit quality than other non-Big 4 partners in the pre-switch period. Second, enhanced learning has taken place after the switch. Third, the increased audit quality can also be attributed to stronger incentives/monitoring. These are new findings to the literature.

Keywords: Big-4 effect, auditing, audit quality, labor economics, learning, incentives, monitoring, auditor change, private firms, research design

JEL Classification: G30, G34, J01, J24, J62, M10, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Che, Limei and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Langli, John Christian, How Big-4 Firms Improve Audit Quality (April 3, 2019). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
P D Allison , J S Long
Departmental effects on scientific productivity
American Sociological Review , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 469 - 478 Posted: 1990
Crossref
D Aobdia , C.-J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Ayers , S K Kaplan
Review partners' reaction to contact partner risk judgments of prospective clients
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Chee Yeow Lim , Gerald J. Lobo , Pingui Rao , Heng Yue
Financial capacity and the demand for audit quality
Accounting and Business Research , p. 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,202
RANK
126,012
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies