Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prior Audit Experience and CFO Financial Reporting Aggressiveness

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 19-06

51 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019 Last revised: 6 Feb 2021

Eric Condie

Georgia Institute of Technology

Kara Obermire

Oregon State University

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: February 6, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we investigate the financial reporting behavior of chief financial officers (CFOs) with significant prior audit experience. Our tests indicate that, on average, CFOs who were former audit managers or partners report less aggressively than CFOs without prior audit experience. Thus, the mindset that auditors develop during their time in public accounting – which should value objective, transparent, and conservative financial reporting – appears to persist when auditors take high-level positions in industry. However, we also find that the reporting behavior of prior-auditor CFOs becomes more aggressive over time as the salience of their audit experience decays. Further, we find that audit fees are lower for clients with prior-auditor CFOs but increase as the CFOs’ time away from auditing increases. Overall, our study offers important insights regarding how audit experience is associated with the financial reporting behavior of CFOs.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Audit Experience, Discretionary Accruals, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

Condie, Eric and Obermire, Kara and Seidel, Timothy A. and Wilkins, Michael S., Prior Audit Experience and CFO Financial Reporting Aggressiveness (February 6, 2021). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 19-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3365031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3365031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2018
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational timereckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
426
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,390
RANK
156,866
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies