Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Social Networks to Individual Auditors

67 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019 Last revised: 13 Feb 2021

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

We examine the role that individual auditors’ social networks play in their careers. We focus on educational networks in China, as measured by the size of an auditor’s university alumni network, including those who are auditors in public accounting firms (auditor alumni) and those who are executives of public companies (executive alumni). These social networks widen auditors’ access to expertise, information, and potential clients, which should enhance their professional development and audit quality. We find that individual auditors with larger social networks: provide higher-quality audits; attract more clients and earn higher audit fees; exhibit a higher likelihood of receiving a promotion and moving to a higher-quality audit firm, and exhibit a lower likelihood of leaving public accounting. Consistent with expectations, connections to auditor (executive) alumni play a more prominent role for audit quality (client acquisitions and career advancement). Evidence surrounding an exogenous large expansion in auditor social networks reinforces the main results.

Keywords: individual auditors; social networks; alumni networks; school ties; audit quality; client acquisition; career pamni network, audit quality, client acquisition, career path

JEL Classification: M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Qi, Baolei and Zhang, Guochang and Zhao, Yuping, The Importance of Social Networks to Individual Auditors (February 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3365474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3365474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,537
RANK
75,332
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies