Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Style and Common Disclosure Issues: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters

64 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019 Last revised: 19 Oct 2022

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: October 15, 2022

Abstract

Policies and procedures that centralize decision-making within an audit firm create auditor style effects. Prior research suggests this style increases financial statement comparability, implicitly making financial statements more useful. However, a potential hazard of auditor style is the propagation of decision errors. We examine the association between auditor style and common disclosure issues among audit clients. We measure auditor style as the presence of a common auditor and use comments given in the SEC’s filing review process to measure the occurrence of common disclosure issues. We find that auditor style is associated with common disclosure issues among Big 4 clientele. We also find that clients with the same auditor converge in issues as tenure increases and some evidence that clients assume the issues of a subsequent auditor. These results provide the first evidence that auditor style has potential costs in the form of common disclosure issues.

Keywords: Audit quality, auditor style, financial statement comparability, SEC comment letters

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Schmardebeck, Roy, Auditor Style and Common Disclosure Issues: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters (October 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3368511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional Work Shaping Auditors' National Office Consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
M Alavi , D E Leidner
Knowledge Management and Knowledge Management Systems: Conceptual Foundations and Research Issues
MIS Quarterly , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 136 Posted: 2001
D Aobdia , C-J. Lin , R Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality , volume 90 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,534
RANK
92,574
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies