Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In-Network Auditors and Foreign Subsidiaries’ Investment Efficiency

36 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019 Last revised: 16 Jan 2024

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Christophe Van Linden

Oslo Metropolitan University

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of appointing in-network auditors (i.e., audit firms from the same global audit firm network) in business groups on the investment efficiency of subsidiaries. We use a sample of European business groups for which we observe the parent and both domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Our findings reveal that an audit by in-network auditors does not affect the investment efficiency of domestic subsidiaries but leads to improvements in the investment efficiency of foreign subsidiaries. Specifically, external audits by in-network auditors are associated with a reduced likelihood and reduced extent of over-investments by foreign subsidiaries. While prior research mostly focuses on the role of auditors in providing financial reporting assurance within business groups, our study shows that in-network auditors provide audits with more added value by enhancing subsidiary investment efficiency.

Keywords: group audit, auditor alignment, interface between auditing and managerial accounting, internal information quality, common auditor

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva and Pierk, Jochen and Van Linden, Christophe, In-Network Auditors and Foreign Subsidiaries’ Investment Efficiency (January 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3370953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
T Adams , Y Zhou
Inexperienced component auditors and the internal information asymmetry of multinational corporations
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2022
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate Investment and Stock Market Listing: A Puzzle? Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,058
RANK
94,830
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies