Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value, Management Discretion and Audit Fees: An Empirical Analysis

The Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, (Forthcoming)

Posted: 6 May 2019 Last revised: 12 May 2019

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Date Written: March 25, 2019

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to investigate the impact of complexity resulting from fair value adoption on audit fees. Using a sample of 9619 firm-year observations from USA, this study finds that auditors charge higher audit fees for firms exposed to higher level of complexity due to fair value adoption. More specifically, this study focuses on research and development expenditure, intangibles, goodwill, and property, plant and equipment to compute the intensity of complexity as these items are heavily affected by the fair value which is subject to management discretion. The results suggest that the greater level of complexity arising from the above sources increase auditors’ efforts and risks level, thereby, results in higher audit fees. Further analysis, however, shows that auditors do not charge additional audit fees for complexity arising from goodwill if they have intangibles. It is because of economies of scale by auditors, they design their audit program which covers goodwill audit when they do audit for intangibles. Overall, the results support the proposition that judgemental or discretionary choice available for management increases audit risks, and auditors, to compensate higher risks, charge greater audit fees.

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Miah, Muhammad Shahin, Fair Value, Management Discretion and Audit Fees: An Empirical Analysis (March 25, 2019). The Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370019
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies