Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Management Disclosure and Auditor Disclosure Affect Auditor Liability: The Case of the Going Concern Financial Accounting Standard

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-008.

42 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019 Last revised: 29 Jan 2024

Joel Owens

Portland State University

K. Kelli Saunders

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Samantha Schachner

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Todd A. Thornock

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

A current FASB standard requires management to assess the ability of the entity to continue as a going concern (GC) and disclose any substantial doubt about such. Using contextualized experiments wherein the auditor does not issue a GC opinion for an entity that subsequently fails, we study the effects of management disclosure, increased management disclosure responsibility, and auditor disclosure on auditor blame, a proxy for auditor liability. Consistent with predictions based on the Culpable Control Model, we find: (1) management disclosure of substantial doubt increases auditor liability, (2) when management has not disclosed substantial doubt, auditor liability is greater under higher management disclosure responsibility; and (3) including a GC-related critical audit matter (CAM) in the audit report mitigates auditor liability. These findings provide insights regarding consequences to auditors of management disclosure practices, specifically regarding the FASB’s GC standard and the efficacy of auditor disclosure via CAMs to mitigate those consequences.

Keywords: ASC 205-40/ASU 2014-15, going concern, CAMs, auditor liability, auditor disclosure, management disclosure, management disclosure responsibility

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Joel and Saunders, K. Kelli and Schachner, Samantha and Thornock, Todd A., How Management Disclosure and Auditor Disclosure Affect Auditor Liability: The Case of the Going Concern Financial Accounting Standard (January 25, 2024). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-008., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3374039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Aicpa
New-Going-Concern-Disclosures-Substantial-Doubt-Alleviated-or-Reinforced Posted: 2017-04-19
AU-C Section 570: The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
AICPA Posted: 2018
A Ajmera , N Layne
Sears warns of 'going concern' doubts
Reuters Posted: 2017-04-20
M D Alicke
Culpable control and the psychology of blame
Psychological Bulletin , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,815
RANK
155,190
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies