Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Influences of Changes in Officers and Auditors on Annual Report Textual Disclosures

68 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2019 Last revised: 6 Jan 2021

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Padmakumar Sivadasan

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Date Written: January 6, 2021

Abstract

We use changes in firm officers and external auditors to examine the relative influences of these parties on annual report textual disclosures. Using a sample of public companies that file XBRL-tagged financial statements with the SEC between 2011 and 2018, we find that changes in chief executive officers (CEOs), chief financial officers (CFOs), and external auditors are associated with significant changes in textual disclosures in both MD&A and the footnotes. Hierarchically, changes in CEOs have the smallest influence on MD&A and the footnotes. Although changes in CFOs and external auditors generally have comparable influences on MD&A, changes in external auditors have a greater relative influence on the footnotes. We additionally find that changes from a lower quality to a higher quality external auditor are associated with the greatest changes in both MD&A and footnote disclosures. Changes in CFOs and external auditors appear to have the greatest influences over MD&A disclosures for smaller firms, but the auditor’s significant influence over the footnotes is pervasive across small and large firms. This research deepens our understanding of the influence that individuals can have on financial reporting outcomes and should be informative to constituents seeking to assess the information content in changes in disclosures.

Keywords: Disclosure, MD&A, Footnotes, Textual Analysis, Auditors, Chief Financial Officers, Chief Executive Officers

JEL Classification: D83, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith and Sivadasan, Padmakumar, The Relative Influences of Changes in Officers and Auditors on Annual Report Textual Disclosures (January 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3376040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3376040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
J R Graham , C R Harvey , S Rajgopal , ; T , B Mcdonald
The economic implications of corporate financial Loughran
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 1187 - 1230 Posted: 2005
B J Mcconomy
Bias and accuracy of management earnings forecasts: An evaluation of the impact of auditing
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 195 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J L Mcmullin
Can I borrow your footnotes? Footnote boilerplate's learning externality Posted: 2016
S Mcvay , V Nagar , V W Tang
Trading incentives to meet the analyst forecast
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 575 - 598 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Landi Morris
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): A Review and Implications for Future Research
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 107 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Landi Morris
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): A Review and Implications for Future Research
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory 30 (2) · 58 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 21 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 1,687
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,602
RANK
231,675
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies