Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks’ Audit Committees, Audit Firm Alumni, and Fees Paid to Audit Firm

Forthcoming in Managerial Auditing Journal

43 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Kim Ittonen

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Emma-Riikka Myllymäki

Audencia Business School

Per Tronnes

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

Purpose
This paper focuses on bank audit committees and examines whether audit committee members who are former auditors are associated with the acquisition of audit and non-audit services from their former employers.

Design/methodology/approach
We empirically examine a sample of large banks that are included in the S&P Composite 1500.

Findings
We find significantly lower audit fees and a higher proportion of non-audit fees to total fees when the audit committee chair is an alumnus of the incumbent audit firm. Moreover, additional analysis reveals that these findings are stronger for banks with more earnings management.

Implications
Overall, the findings indicate that audit firms might consider banks employing their alumni as audit committee chairs to be less risky or easier to audit, thus requiring relatively less effort from the auditors. The reduced effort required to audit clients with audit firm alumni on their audit committees then has the effect of reducing the audit fees charged. Alternatively, their auditing experience and cognitive proximity might influence the assessment of the need for auditing or the ability to negotiate lower audit fees on the part of audit firm alumni.

Originality/value
This paper provides empirical evidence of the association between audit firm alumni in influential positions on an audit committee and fees paid to those audit firms in the banking industry. The findings contribute to the literature by suggesting that banks with affiliated former auditors chairing their audit committees have significantly lower audit fees, but also a higher proportion is spent on non-audit services.



Keywords: audit committee, audit fee, audit partner, banking industry

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ittonen, Kim and Myllymäki, Emma-Riikka and Tronnes, Per, Banks’ Audit Committees, Audit Firm Alumni, and Fees Paid to Audit Firm (May 14, 2019). Forthcoming in Managerial Auditing Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3387839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
429,779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies