Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Projection or Reflection? The Effect of Social Projection, Dark Triad, and Moral Identity on Auditor Risk Assessments and Ethical Action-Taking

43 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2019 Last revised: 5 Sep 2019

Kristen Steury

University of South Carolina, Darla Moore School of Business, Department of Accounting

Chad M. Stefaniak

University of South Carolina

Date Written: September 05, 2019

Abstract

Using two distinct scenarios, we investigate how auditors’ personality traits influence their risk assessments and ethical action-taking. First, we draw upon social projection theory (i.e., assigning a state of one’s own to someone else) to determine whether auditors’ use of their own ethical predispositions (i.e., Dark Triad) as a proxy for their clients’ predispositions affects risk assessments. We find a significant interaction between social projection and Dark Triad traits, suggesting that higher Dark Triad auditors assess client risk to be as high, or higher, than lower Dark Triad auditors, depending on whether they exhibit social projection. Second, we extend prior ethical action-taking literature in accounting by finding that while an auditors’ level of Dark Triad personality has historically been directly linked to ethical action-taking, it is ultimately auditors’ moral identities (i.e., the degree to which morality is important to a person’s self-concept) that significantly influences their ethical actions. Our findings support our prediction that auditors’ moral identity is the predominate self-regulatory mechanism restricting unethical actions.

Keywords: risk assessments, social projection, dark triad, moral identity, management motives

Suggested Citation:

Steury, Kristen and Stefaniak, Chad M., Projection or Reflection? The Effect of Social Projection, Dark Triad, and Moral Identity on Auditor Risk Assessments and Ethical Action-Taking (September 05, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3391744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3391744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit
Statement on Auditing Standards (No. 107, AU §312.03) Posted: 2006
J H Amernic , R J Craig
Accounting as a facilitator of extreme narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Aquino , I I Reed
The self-importance of moral identity
Journal of personality and social psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
RANK
294,906
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies