Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of the Adoption of the Expanded Auditor’s Report: Evidence from Hong Kong

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3392449

74 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Lin Liao

Nanjing Audit Univeristy

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine the adoption of the IAASB expanded audit report standards in Hong Kong and Mainland China in December 2016 and 2017, respectively. These jurisdictions combined represent one of the largest economies that has mandated expanded reports in a staggered fashion. This setting offers rich data that can help us to overcome some shortcomings of earlier studies, which document inconclusive and limited causal inferences about the consequences of expanded reports. We do not find compelling evidence that expanded reports, and specifically Key Audit Maters (KAMs), have provided incremental information to investors or improved audit quality. Next, several cross-sectional tests based on variations in companies’ information environment and KAMs’ characteristics confirm the conclusions of our main analyses. Our evidence supports some stakeholders’ concerns that expanded reports provide little company-specific or value-relevant information. Auditors still have an unrealized potential to provide useful information in expanded reports.

Keywords: Key audit matters, market reaction, audit quality, Hong Kong; Mainland China

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Lin and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Zhang, Yun and Zou, Youli, Consequences of the Adoption of the Expanded Auditor’s Report: Evidence from Hong Kong (June 1, 2022). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3392449, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3392449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3392449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
References Al-Mulla , M Bradbury , M E
Auditor, client and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2022
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in for East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Load more
24 Citations
Emil Spaargaren , Alexandros Sikalidis , Georgios Georgakopoulos , Chris Grose
The Influence of Critical Audit Matters in the US on the Informativeness of Investors
Scientific Annals of Economics and Business , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 217 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Md Khokan Bepari , Shamsun Nahar , Abu Taher Mollik , Mohammad Istiaq Azim
Content characteristics of key audit matters reported by auditors in Bangladesh and their implications for audit quality
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 855 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Mazen Al‐mulla , Michael E. Bradbury
Auditor, client and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Vlad‐Andrei Porumb , Yasemin Zengin‐Karaibrahimoglu , Gerald J. Lobo , Reggy Hooghiemstra , Dick de Waard
Expanded Auditor's Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 3214 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,522
RANK
89,516
24 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies