Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Data Files and Auditor Skepticism: How Do 'Dirty' Files Influence Auditors’ Skeptical Judgments and Actions?

49 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Alisa Gabrielle Brink

Virginia Commonwealth University

Edward Lynch

California State University, Fullerton

Jodie L. Ferguson

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - School of Business

Date Written: May 28, 2019

Abstract

Auditors receive an abundance of client-prepared data files when performing audit work. With today’s increasingly data-rich environment, these files are likely becoming even more challenging for auditors to cognitively process. Specifically, these data files may have characteristics (e.g., contain errors or irrelevant information; aka “dirty” files) that could challenge their ease of use and interpretation (i.e., processing fluency). Depending on this ease, auditors may view these files as relatively less reliable and trustworthy, resulting in skeptical judgments and actions that are sometimes excessive. This paper reports two experiments examining whether two features of the data files, the presence of minor errors (absent or present) and information load (low or high), influence auditors’ processing fluency, skeptical judgments, and actions. While minor errors should raise auditors’ concerns, greater information load should not. However, we find the lowest processing fluency and highest skeptical judgments and actions when minor errors are present and information load is higher. Our study contributes to the literature by presenting an alternative issue to those raised by regulators (i.e., too much skepticism rather than too little) that can occur when auditors struggle to interpret large amounts of data. From a practical perspective, while access to increased amounts of client data may have benefits, audit firms and clients need to be wary of the potential for wasted time that could create inefficiencies that may affect audit quality.

Keywords: Client-Prepared Data Files; Processing Fluency; Skeptical Judgments and Actions; Eye Tracking

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Brink, Alisa Gabrielle and Lynch, Edward and Ferguson, Jodie L., Client Data Files and Auditor Skepticism: How Do 'Dirty' Files Influence Auditors’ Skeptical Judgments and Actions? (May 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3395571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
M Alles , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Putting continuous auditing theory into practice: Lessons from two pilot implementations
Journal of Information , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A L Alter , D M Oppenheimer
Uniting the tribes of fluency to form a metacognitive nation
Personality and Social Psychology Review , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A L Alter , D M Oppenheimer , N Epley , R N Eyre
Overcoming intuition: Metacognitive difficulty activates analytic reasoning
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General , volume 136 , p. 569 - 576 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L M Andiola , T A Lambert , E J Lynch
Electronic workpapers, audit documentation, and closing review notes in the audit of accounts receivable
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 55 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
331,643
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies