Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Walking the Talk? Managing Errors in the Audit Profession

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2019 Last revised: 29 Apr 2022

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Dominic Detzen

VU University Amsterdam

Oscar van Mourik

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Philip Wallage

VU University Amsterdam; University of Amsterdam - Business School

Arnold Wright

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 14, 2022

Abstract

Errors reflect unintended deviations from plans or goals, and commonly carry negative connotations. While errors cannot be eliminated, they offer opportunities for learning and innovation. Audit firms employ powerful mechanisms, such as detailed audit manuals and review processes, to prevent or detect audit errors and safeguard their work in the public interest. At the same time, the profession recognizes potentially positive long-term outcomes of errors in terms of continuous learning to enhance auditor skills and, ultimately, audit quality. The current study employs semi-structured interviews with Dutch auditors to investigate how they manage the tensions emanating from perceiving audit errors as a threat to their public-interest work while embracing such incidents as opportunities for learning. Our findings reveal that auditors express an open attitude towards learning from audit errors, but, in substance, they espouse negative emotions and defensive strategies for fear of repercussions. We show that the excessive emphasis audit firms and regulatory oversight bodies place on error prevention conditions auditors into perceiving errors as negative and avoidable events. We argue these attitudes result from the profession’s efforts to maintain status and legitimacy, where any auditor error may elicit regulatory scrutiny and concomitantly shed doubt on auditors’ work in the public interest.

Keywords: error management; learning from errors; legitimacy; psychodynamics of work; audit profession

JEL Classification: M14, M42, M44

Suggested Citation:

Gold, Anna and Detzen, Dominic and van Mourik, Oscar and Wallage, Philip and Wright, Arnold, Walking the Talk? Managing Errors in the Audit Profession (February 14, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3395273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
A Abbott
The System of Professions: An Essay on the Division of Expert Labor Posted: 1988
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp , B B Marquardt , S A Merrell
Does an audit office's quality control system impact audit quality? Evidence from audit report errors
2021 PCAOB Conference on Auditing and Capital Markets Posted: 2020
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective. Accounting , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Constructing mystery: Empirical matters in theory development
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1281 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
401,129
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies