Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt

Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019).

52 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2019

Engy E. Abdelhak

Ministry of higher education , Technological college of PortSaid Egypt

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Craig Mclaughlin

University of Strathclyde, Department of Accounting and Finance, Students

Aws Alhares

University of Huddersfield

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – The aim of this research is to investigate Egyptian auditors ethical reasoning, to understand whether auditors’ ethical reasoning is influenced by audit firm size or/and auditor position.

Design/methodology/approach – This paper draws on 178 questionnaires that include six different ethical scenarios. This paper also uses AEDI (Accounting Ethical Dilemma Instrument) that is developed by Thorne (2000) to measure the ethical reasoning of Egyptian auditors.

Findings – The findings are three-fold. First, this study finds that the general level of deliberative ethical reasoning of auditors working in CAO (The Central Auditing Organization) and small firms are categorized in the post-conventional level, while auditors working in Big and Medium firms categorized in conventional level. Second, the result suggests that there is a negative relationship between ethical reasoning and audit firm size in Egypt. Finally, the results show that ethical reasoning levels decrease when the position of auditors increase except for auditors working in CAO.

Originality/value – This study adds to the scarce literature in developing countries that measure auditors’ ethical reasoning. The findings suggest that auditors’ ethical reasoning depend on auditor firm size and the position the auditor holds within the firm. These findings will aid policy makers and regulators, especially in developing countries to avoid any potential risks regarding professional misconduct and in evaluating the adequacy of the current code of ethics.



Keywords: Ethical reasoning; AEDI, Defining Issues Test, Egypt Paper type Research paper

Suggested Citation:

Abdelhak, Engy and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Mclaughlin, Craig and Alhares, Aws, Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt (June 7, 2019). Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
O H Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi , W J Read , D P Scarbrough
Does selection-socialization help to explain accountants' weak ethical reasoning?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 81 Posted: 2003
Accountability state authority of Egypt (CAO), (1988), law and work regulation
M Adhikariparajul , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated reporting in UK higher education institutions. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal, Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
514,796
3 Citations
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies