Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Greater Reliance on Major Customers and Auditor Going Concern Opinions

49 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Jun 2019

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Vic Naiker

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 11, 2019

Abstract

In this study we predict and provide evidence that distressed firms that rely more heavily on major customers for sales have a comparatively higher incidence of receiving going concern opinions (GCOs). Moreover, we find that the effect of increased reliance on major customers is driven by firms that are more distressed. We also theorize that variations in key characteristics of the relationship between distressed firms and their largest major customer are incrementally linked to GCOs, and present evidence consistent with this. Specifically, we find that the effect of greater reliance on major customers is driven by firms that are relatively smaller than their largest major customer. Additionally, we find that greater reliance on major customers is positively (negative) associated with GCOs when firms are in a shorter (longer) relationship with their major customer and when firms have a different auditor to (same auditor as) the largest major customer. Overall, our study indicates that supply-chain relationships are relevant business risks associated with auditors’ going concern assessments.

Keywords: going concern, major customer, financial distress, customer reliance, sales dependence

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Michas, Paul N. and Naiker, Vic and Sharma, Divesh Shankar, Greater Reliance on Major Customers and Auditor Going Concern Opinions (June 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3402521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3402521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standard (SAS) 59: The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Posted: 2006
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector
Management Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 258 - 72 Posted: 2016
Crossref
V Arnold , D E Edwards
Going-concern evaluation: Factors affecting decisions
The CPA Journal , volume 63 , issue 10 Posted: 1993
R Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies