Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Can combining judgment decomposition and notetaking improve group auditors' sensitivity to qualitative risk?

Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Ann G. Backof

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

In this study, we leverage judgment decomposition and information acquisition theories to develop and test an intervention to improve group auditors’ identification of and response to component-level qualitative risk. Improving group auditors’ response to qualitative risk is important because (1) group audits are prevalent today and require multiple qualitative risk assessments, (2) auditors have historically overlooked qualitative risks, and (3) prior interventions have failed to improve auditors’ response to qualitative risk. In an experiment with 88 audit partners and managers, we find that a hybrid risk assessment approach that combines elements of judgment decomposition and notetaking improves auditors’ group audit planning decisions. Specifically, auditors utilizing our hybrid approach are better able to identify and respond to component-level qualitative risks than auditors who use a holistic approach. Importantly, the improvement in qualitative risk response does not come at the expense of auditors’ response to quantitative risk. 

Forthcoming at Contemporary Accounting Research.

Keywords: Group audit planning decisions; decomposition theory; information acquisition theory; note-taking; audit risk assessment, audit risk assessment, decomposition theory, information acquisition theory, notetaking

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Backof, Ann G. and Christensen, Brant E. and Glover, Steven M. and Schmidt, Jaime J.,

Can combining judgment decomposition and notetaking improve group auditors' sensitivity to qualitative risk?

(June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3404320
 Not Available for Download
26 References
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2022. Proposed statement on auditing standards: Special considerations-audits of group financial statements (including the work of component auditors and audits of referred-to auditors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
J S Armstrong , W B Denniston , M M Gordon ; Boch , F , A Piolat
The Use of the Decomposition Principle in Making Judgments
Organizational Behavior and Human Performance , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 113 Posted: 1975
M Bohay , D P Blakely , A K Tamplin , G A Radvansky
Note taking, review, memory, and comprehension
The American journal of psychology , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 73 Posted: 2011
S E Bonner
Judgment and decision making in accounting Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies