Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Auditors’ Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management’s Estimate Assumptions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jun 2019

Ashley A. Austin

University of Richmond

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: May 21, 2019

Abstract

Auditors have difficulty evaluating the assumptions underlying management’s estimates. One source of these problems is that auditors appear to dismiss evidence contradicting management’s assumptions because their initial preference to support management’s accounting biases their preliminary conclusions and, thus, their interpretation of evidence. We experimentally examine whether auditors with a balanced focus (i.e., a focus on documenting evidence that supports and contradicts their preliminary conclusion) are less likely to dismiss evidence that contradicts management’s assumptions than auditors with a supporting focus (i.e., a focus on documenting evidence that supports their preliminary conclusion). We expect and find that, compared to auditors with a supporting focus, auditors with a balanced focus create documentation that is less dismissive of evidence contradicting management’s estimate. Importantly, a balanced focus changes auditors’ cognition and affects how auditors interpret contradicting evidence rather than merely increasing their documentation of this evidence. The effects of reduced dismissiveness persist to improve auditors’ evaluations of a biased estimate and subsequent actions, improving audit quality in an important and difficult area.

Keywords: documentation, complex estimates, assumptions, motivated reasoning

Suggested Citation:

Austin, Ashley A. and Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Ricci, Michael, Improving Auditors’ Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management’s Estimate Assumptions (May 21, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406184
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
688
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies