Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving to Less Contaminated Audit Offices and the Likelihood of Misstatements

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2019 Last revised: 3 Dec 2019

Yuzhou Chen

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 20, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates whether companies improve their financial reporting quality after changing to a less contaminated audit office using the contamination score from Swanquist and Whited 2015. We use the likelihood of misstatement as our proxy for financial reporting quality and find a significantly lower likelihood of misstatements after a company moves to a less contaminated audit office. We find that this effect exists in both the short-term and long-term and is influenced by the magnitude of the contamination score difference between the predecessor audit office and the successor audit office. Additional analyses indicate that both, a lower likelihood of missed internal control weaknesses and reduced income-increasing discretionary accruals, are possible explanations for the lower likelihood of misstatements. The results suggest that companies successfully improve their financial reporting quality after moving to less contaminated audit offices even in the presence of issues related to short-term auditor tenure.

Keywords: Auditor Change; Misstatement; Audit Quality; Audit Offices

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yuzhou and Omer, Thomas C., Moving to Less Contaminated Audit Offices and the Likelihood of Misstatements (November 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3411779 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3411779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: the case of fair value accounting. The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2018
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jie Hao , Viet Pham , Meng Guo
The Gender Effects of Audit Partners on Audit Outcomes: Evidence of Rule 3211 Adoption
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,743
RANK
280,691
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies