Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of E-Commerce and Auditing Process in Tourism and Hospitality Sector of Libya.

Case Studies Journal ISSN (2305-509X) – Volume 5, Issue 5–May-2016

11 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Dr. Almaz Sandybayev

Akdeniz Karpaz Üniversitesi - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: May 2016

Abstract

The research mainly focuses on the impact of E-commerce to understand how much the phenomena of Ecommerce has changed the auditing process and how it affected on work load that is caused on the auditor’s work in the tourism and hospitality industry. Traveling and tourism is tremendously growing worldwide and Libya has a significant potential to develop it successfully. The empirical data was primarily collected from accounting companies working in Libya. Auditors, auditing managers, key aids auditors and accountants were targeted as a sample population. Both qualitative and quantitative data analysis methods are being applied in this research paper. The data is calculated utilizing SPSS 20. The results proved that electronic commerce plays important role on having an impact on the work of external auditors working in the accounting businesses throughout of Libya. The paper concludes that it has different affects on the auditors but in overall it has a significant impact on each of the business level strategic areas.


Keywords: E-Commerce, Auditing, Tourism, Hospitality, Libya

Suggested Citation:

Sandybayev, Dr. Almaz, The Impact of E-Commerce and Auditing Process in Tourism and Hospitality Sector of Libya. (May 2016). Case Studies Journal ISSN (2305-509X) – Volume 5, Issue 5–May-2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
B Anckar , P Walden
Introducing Web technology in a small peripheral hospitality organization
International journal of contemporary hospitality management , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 241 - 250 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Buhalis , R Main
Information technology in peripheral small and medium hospitality enterprises: strategic analysis and critical factors
International journal of contemporary hospitality management , volume 10 , issue 5 , p. 198 - 202 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Blackburn , . R Athayde
Making the connection: the effectiveness of Internet training in small businesses
Education +Training , volume 42 , issue 4/5 , p. 289 - 298 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C Collins , D Buhalis , M Peters
Enhancing SMTEs' business performance through the Internet and e-learning platforms
Education + Training , volume 45 , issue 9 , p. 483 - 494 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
610,038
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Managerial Marketing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies