Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Rule-Based Versus Principle-Based Accounting Estimates on Auditors’ Going Concern Assessments

58 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2019

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 3, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates whether auditors use information in accounting estimates when making going concern assessments and whether the usefulness of information in accounting estimates to auditors depends on whether the estimate is prepared following a rule-based standard or a principle-based standard. We use goodwill impairments and increases in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, both of which could be indicative of poor financial condition, to operationalize rule-based and principle-based accounting estimates, respectively. Using a sample of U.S. public companies for the period 2005 – 2015, we find that both rule-based and principle-based estimates inform auditor going concern assessments and assessments of the likelihood of failure. Auditors, however, appear to rely more on rule-based estimates when assessing going concern, consistent with auditors placing greater weight on information that is more familiar to audit. The results of a path analysis show that a going concern opinion subsumes more of the information in rule-based estimates when predicting the likelihood of company failure, further supporting this inference. Our research should be of interest to standard setters, auditors, investors, and academics, who continue to evaluate the role of estimates in financial reporting and the usefulness of estimates for decision-making in various contexts.

Keywords: accounting estimates, auditors, rule-based standards, principle-based standards, going concern opinions, company failure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, H25

Suggested Citation:

Akamah, Herita T. and Czerney, Keith and Omer, Thomas C., The Effects of Rule-Based Versus Principle-Based Accounting Estimates on Auditors’ Going Concern Assessments (July 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3414626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3414626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Y Campbell , J Hilscher , J Szilagyi
In search of distress risk
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 6 , p. 2899 - 2939 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Carson , N L Fargher , M A Geiger , C S Lennox , K Raghunandan , M Willekens
Audit reporting for going-concern uncertainty: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 353 - 384 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K C W Chen , B K Church
Going concern opinions and the market's reaction to bankruptcy filings
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 128 Posted: 1996
C Chen , X Martin , X Wang
Insider trading, litigation concerns, and auditor going-concern opinions
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 365 - 393 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,826
RANK
179,230
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies