Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Skepticism: The Combined Effect of Partner Style and Team Identity Salience

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Jul 2019

Edward Stevens

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

John Webster

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 2019

Abstract

While essential in the delivery of a high-quality audit, regulators report their concerns about an apparent lack of professional skepticism exercised by auditors. In an experiment, we use regulatory focus and social identity theories to examine how the style used by a partner (supportive or unsupportive) when allocating a task and team identity salience (high or low) combine to impact skepticism. We find that when team identity salience is high, auditors demonstrate greater skepticism when a partner’s style is supportive rather than unsupportive. In additional analysis we also consider how motivation moderates the effect of partner style and team identity salience on skepticism and retest our hypotheses using a different measure of skepticism. Our results suggest that team identity salience is important when considering the effect of partner style on professional skepticism.

Keywords: professional skepticism; partner style; team identity salience; regulatory focus theory; social identity theory

Suggested Citation:

Stevens, Edward and Moroney, Robyn and Webster, John, Professional Skepticism: The Combined Effect of Partner Style and Team Identity Salience (July 2019). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3414072
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies