Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Auditor Social and Human Capital on Auditor Compensation: Evidence from the Italian Small Audit Firm Market

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

50 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2019

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Nieves Carrera

IE Business School - IE University

Marco Trombetta

IE Business School - IE University

Date Written: May 30, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether social and human capital influence the compensation of individual auditors in the small audit firm market. We employ a sample of Italian auditors and use measures from the network and auditing literatures to capture their professional connections, representing social capital, and their industry expertise, representing human capital. Our findings show a positive and economically meaningful association between these individual attributes and auditor compensation. We run several tests to address potential endogeneity issues in our research design. Our results suggest that, in the small audit market, clients perceive as valuable those auditors with higher social and human capital, and as a result, are willing to pay a premium for these specific auditor attributes.

Keywords: small audit firm market, auditor compensation, audit fees, social capital, human capital

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Carrera, Nieves and Trombetta, Marco, The Effects of Auditor Social and Human Capital on Auditor Compensation: Evidence from the Italian Small Audit Firm Market (May 30, 2019). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
P S Adler , S W Kwon
Social capital: Prospects for a new concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Amir , J Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are joint audits associated with higher audit fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
RANK
461,979
6 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies