Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Captured by Mutual Funds: Do Cross-Audits Undermine Auditor Independence?

73 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2019 Last revised: 27 Jul 2022

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Ting Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: July 27, 2022

Abstract

We analyze the impact of cross-audits between companies and mutual funds on auditors’ reporting decisions. We document that companies are more likely to receive favorable audit opinions when they appoint the same auditor as their mutual fund blockholders. In cross-sectional evidence consistent with expectations, we find that the role that cross-audits play is concentrated where the mutual fund has stronger incentives to orchestrate stock price manipulation and the auditor is more likely to be captured by the mutual fund. We further show that investors fail to detect the impact of cross-audits on audit opinions in the short-term, which enables mutual funds to exploit this temporary mispricing through stock trading. In compensation, shared auditors captured by mutual funds benefit from higher audit fees and more audit business. Additionally, we find that mutual funds are eager to form a cross-audit relation with their portfolio firms in pursuing economic benefits stemming from cross-audits. Our evidence suggesting that market irregularities accompany cross-audits has major implications for stock market regulators.

Keywords: cross-audits; auditor reporting aggressiveness; auditor independence; mutual funds

JEL Classification: M40, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Huang, Jun and Li, Ting and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Captured by Mutual Funds: Do Cross-Audits Undermine Auditor Independence? (July 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3415843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
J S Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
J Adams , T Nishikawa , S Rasmussen
Auditor sharing in the mutual fund industry: Empirical evidence on determinants and audit fees Posted: 2018
W Alissa , T V. Capkun , N Jeanjean , Suca
An empirical investigation of the impact of audit and auditor characteristics on auditor performance. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 39 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2014
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,409
RANK
202,849
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies