Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Clients Prefer Watchdogs or Lapdogs? The Effect of Strictness on Audit Offices’ Market Shares

52 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2019 Last revised: 28 Jul 2019

Christopher Bleibtreu

BI Norwegian Business School

Ulf Mohrmann

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: July 19, 2019

Abstract

Regulators frequently interpret a high audit market concentration as a threat to audit quality and want to foster competition. However, both the direction and the sign of the link between quality and concentration are unclear. This paper investigates the link between audit offices’ market shares and two dimensions of their strictness: The probability to issue going concern opinions and the tolerance for earnings management. We develop an analytical model in which the information content of the audit outcome for the addressees of financial statements and the financial statements preparers’ preferences drive the client firms’ demand for audit services of a certain strictness. The model predicts an inverse u-shaped relation between an office’s strictness and its market share. In the empirical part of the paper, we use U.S. data from 2000 to 2016 to test the model’s prediction. For the Big 6 as well as for the non-Big 6 market and according to both dimensions of strictness, we find lower market shares for the strictest offices compared to offices with average levels of strictness. Moreover, relative to Big 6 offices with average strictness, we find lower market shares of Big 6 offices that are lenient in their going concern decisions, but not if they are lenient in terms of discretionary accruals. In contrast, non-Big 6 offices that allow for high levels of discretionary accruals have lower market shares, but not if they issue going concern opinions only rarely.

Keywords: Audit Market Structure, Auditor Strictness, Discretionary Accruals, Earnings Management, Going Concern Opinions

JEL Classification: L11, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bleibtreu, Christopher and Mohrmann, Ulf, Do Audit Clients Prefer Watchdogs or Lapdogs? The Effect of Strictness on Audit Offices’ Market Shares (July 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3422803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3422803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Eli Amir , Jose M. Carabias , Jonathan Jona , Gilad Livne
Fixed-Effects in Empirical Accounting Research
Pages: 51 Posted: 23 Jul 2015 Last revised: 6 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Daniel Aobdia , Luminita Enache , Anup Srivastava
Will the Auditing Industry Become a Tighter or Looser Oligopoly?
Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2643862 Posted: 15 Aug 2015 Last revised: 30 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jeny , L Jiang
The validity of auditor industry specialization measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,267
RANK
490,153
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies