Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Possible Impact of the Latest International Standard of Auditing 570 on the Rate of Going Concern Opinion Issuance in Malaysia

Journal of Technology Management and Business, Vol 5, No 2, 2018

7 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2019

Mohammad Noor Hisham Osman

University Putra Malaysia - Department of Accouting and Finance

Ahmed Razman Abdul Latiff

University Putra Malaysia - Putra Business School

Zaidi Mat Daud

University Putra Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Siti Zaidah Turmin

University Putra Malaysia - Faculty of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 15, 2018

Abstract

Auditors are required to issue going concern opinion (GC opinion) to companies that are incapable to continue their operations in the near future. It is very important for auditors to issue the GC opinion properly because such opinion is the only signal from them on the viability of a company. Investors need such signal before they can make good investment decisions. In Malaysia and many other countries however, auditors do not want to issue GC opinion to a very large percentage of financially distressed companies. This motivates this paper to discuss the impact of the latest International Standard of Auditing 2016 (ISA 570 2016) on GC opinion issuance rate . Overall, we are in the opinion that there is no strong ground to expect the new ISA 570 (2016) to reduce the problem of Malaysian auditors do not issue the GC opinion to many financially distressed companies. This is due to no new stricter measures being introduced in the latest auditing standard. Nonetheless, we propose four actions that can be taken by policy makers and standard setters if they want to improve the rate and practice of GC opinion issuance.

Keywords: Going Concern Opinion, ISA 570, Audit Quality, Going concern opinion Malaysia, audit opinion

JEL Classification: M42, M41,

Suggested Citation:

Osman, Mohammad Noor Hisham and Latiff, Ahmed Razman Abdul and Daud, Zaidi Mat and Sori, Zulkarnain Muhamad and Turmin, Siti Zaidah, Possible Impact of the Latest International Standard of Auditing 570 on the Rate of Going Concern Opinion Issuance in Malaysia (June 15, 2018). Journal of Technology Management and Business, Vol 5, No 2, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Abdul Wahab , E A Mat Zain , M Rahman , R
Political connections, fees paid to auditors and auditor independence in Malaysia: evidence from going concern audit opinion
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 183 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Accountants Today
Financial reporting: Concern over 'Going concern'?
Upholding financial feporting quality , p. 22 - 26 Posted: 2009-12
Accountants Today
Financial Statements Review Committee (FSRC) key observations, 26-30
Lessons from deficient disclosure , p. 14 - 17 Posted: 2009-11
J L Bellovary , D E Giacomino , M D Akers
A review of going concern prediction studies: 1976 to present
Journal of Business & Economics Research , issue 5 , p. 9 - 28 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ruth Zafran
מתחם הלגיטימיות בבחירת הורה את מאפייניו הגנטיים של ילדו בחירת מין העובר מטעמים חברתיים כמקרה מבחן Not in the best interest of the child - Sex selection via PGD as a test case
36 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
883
RANK
560,422
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies