Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Risk and the Potential for Loss on Managers’ Demand for Audit Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3425666

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2019 Last revised: 16 Apr 2021

Patrick J. Hurley

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Brian W. Mayhew

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Kara Obermire

Oregon State University

Amy C. Tegeler

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 7, 2021

Abstract

This study uses experimental economic markets to investigate the impact of risk and the potential for loss on managers’ demand for audit quality. We posit that these two important contextual factors influence managers’ audit quality preferences. We study these factors because they are ubiquitous to companies, and we focus on their influence on managers because managers continue to play a significant role in the auditor hiring process and we know relatively little about their auditor preferences. We predict risk, the potential for loss, and their interaction will each decrease manager demand for high audit quality due to a desire to achieve greater reporting flexibility. Experimental results are consistent with our predictions; specifically, increased risk, the potential for loss, and to a lesser extent their interaction, significantly reduce managers’ likelihood of hiring the best available auditor in the market. Path analysis indicates that this reduction in audit quality demand leads to increases in misreporting. Finally, we observe investors overpaying for assets to a greater extent when managers hire lower-quality auditors. Our results show that the contextual factors of risk and the potential for loss, that are ubiquitous to companies, can reduce demand for audit quality, which can increase misreporting behavior and ultimately harm investors.

Keywords: audit quality, demand, risk, risk aversion, loss aversion, experimental economics

Suggested Citation:

Hurley, Patrick J. and Mayhew, Brian W. and Obermire, Kara and Tegeler, Amy, The Impact of Risk and the Potential for Loss on Managers’ Demand for Audit Quality (April 7, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3425666, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3425666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3425666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
J Cohen , G Krishnamoorthy , A M Wright
Corporate governance in the postSarbanes-Oxley era: Auditors' experiences
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 751 - 786 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T R Cohen , S T Wolf , A T Panter , C A Insko
Introducing the GASP Scale: A new measure of guilt and shame proneness
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 947 - 966 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J L Coles , N D Daniel , L Naveen
Managerial incentives and risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 431 - 468 Posted: 2006
Crossref
N Daniel , D J Denis , L Naveen
Do firms manage earnings to meet dividend thresholds
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 2 - 26 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
RANK
235,061
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies