Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditor Type on Audit Quality in Emerging Markets: Evidence From Egypt

El-Dyasty, M.A., & Elamer, A.A., (2020) ‘The effect of auditor type on audit quality in emerging markets: Evidence from Egypt’, International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Forthcoming, (Accepted 1 August 2020). https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-04-2020-0060

33 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2019 Last revised: 3 Aug 2020

Mohamed M. El-Dyasty

Mansoura University

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

Purpose
Although a number of studies suggest that big audit firms provide higher audit quality in strict legal environments, empirical evidence remains inconclusive. Since little is known about the effect of auditor type on audit quality in less strictly legal environments, this study aims to investigate the impact of auditor type on audit quality in the Egyptian market.
Design/methodology/approach
Data of Egyptian-listed companies during the period 2011-2018 are employed. To examine the impact of auditor type on audit quality, ordinary least square regression and robust standard errors clustered at year and industry level are used. This study employs discretionary accruals as a proxy for audit quality. Several additional analyses are conducted to assess the robustness of the main results, including alternative measures of audit quality and auditor type.
Findings
Our results show that audit firms tend to provide higher audit quality when they are affiliated with a foreign audit firm. However, Big 4 auditors do not provide higher audit quality compare to their counterparts. Additionally, the governmental agency, Accountability State Authority (ASA), that monopolize audit function in state-owned companies do not appear to be associated with higher audit quality. Lastly, local audit firms have a negative association with audit quality. This may be their strategy to secure future clients that seek low-quality audits.
Originality/value
This study adds to the rare but growing body of literature by investigating how auditor type affects audit quality in the context of less strictly legal environments. Our results are important since investors, standards-setters and regulators have growing concerns over audit quality since the Enron scandal. The findings suggest that audit quality depends on auditor type. These findings have important implications for investors, standards-setters and auditors interested in auditor oversight, audit quality and auditor choice.

Keywords: Audit quality, Big 4, Second-tier auditors, Third tier auditors, Local audit firms, Accountability State Authority
JEL Classification M42


Keywords: Audit quality, Big 4, Second-tier auditors, Third tier auditors, Local audit firms, Accountability State Authority

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

El-Dyasty, Mohamed M. and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, The Effect of Auditor Type on Audit Quality in Emerging Markets: Evidence From Egypt (August 1, 2020). El-Dyasty, M.A., & Elamer, A.A., (2020) ‘The effect of auditor type on audit quality in emerging markets: Evidence from Egypt’, International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Forthcoming, (Accepted 1 August 2020). https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-04-2020-0060 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
S Abdallah
External auditor type, discretionary accruals and investors' reactions
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 368 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Abid , M Shaique , M Anwar , Haq
Do Big Four Auditors Always Provide Higher Audit Quality? Evidence from Pakistan
International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 6 , issue 58 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Crossref
E E Abdelhak , A A Elamer , A Alhares , C Mclaughlin
Auditors' ethical reasoning in developing countries: the case of Egypt
International Journal of Ethics and Systems , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 558 - 583 Posted: 2019
Crossref
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
257,421
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies