Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting from Skeptical Judgment to Skeptical Action: A Field Study of Auditor Behavior

63 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2019

Brian Hasson

Appalachian State University

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

Professional skepticism is clearly an important and timely topic in the practice and regulation of auditing. In this paper, we apply Bandura’s self-efficacy construct within Social Cognitive Theory to auditor efficacy and skeptical action in an audit context. This study uses a multiple-interview design to explore the exercise of professional skepticism by experienced auditors. An auditor can be skeptical about the facts and circumstances of a client but may not always manifest that skeptical judgment as skeptical action. We adopt a social constructivist approach applied through a self-efficacy model for auditing to better understand auditors’ experience when considering skeptical action. Our evidence suggests that efficacy expectations associated with skeptical actions are increased by the presence of three primary factors: (1) the support/collectivism within the audit team (consensus), (2) the preparation/homework of the auditor (cognizance), and (3) the quality of the relationship with the client counterpart (consonance). These three themes are further illustrated by specific actions that can be taken by an auditor. The study contributes to our understanding of how auditors make decisions that influence skeptical actions during the course of the audit, the resources and strategies employed to do so, and the motivations that underlie skeptical actions.

Keywords: professional skepticism, auditor skepticism, skeptical action, field study

Suggested Citation:

Hasson, Brian and Knechel, Warren Robert, Getting from Skeptical Judgment to Skeptical Action: A Field Study of Auditor Behavior (July 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3429324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Aicpa
Due Care in the Performance of
Work. Statement on Auditing Standards , issue 1 Posted: 1997
Aicpa
Uniform CPA Examination Blueprints Posted: 2019-05-18
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatisim and Auditor-Client Negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
E M Bamber , V Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,234
RANK
140,158
4 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies