Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Shared-opinion Audit Reports on Perceptions of Audit Quality

Posted: 2 Aug 2019

Yan-Jie Yang

Yuan Ze University

Kuei-Fu Li

National Pingtung University

Qian Long Kweh

Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Dubai; Canadian University Dubai

Chun-You Ko

Soochow University

Date Written: August 2, 2019

Abstract

We examine how capital market investors perceive the shared-opinion audit report (SOAR). Using earnings response coefficients (ERCs) to proxy for investors’ perceptions of audit quality, we observe negative earnings surprise when the SOAR is announced as compared to unqualified audit opinions. The ERCs are more adverse if the SOAR involves a larger percentage of component firms that are not audited by the group engagement partner. Moreover, we find that the negative ERCs are more pronounced in the sample of firms audited by Big 4 auditors. These results are robust to estimation across various subsamples and using an alternative measure of earnings-returns regression model.

Keywords: Shared opinion; Audit quality; Earnings response coefficient; Capital market perceptions

JEL Classification: M41; M42; C81

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yanjie and Li, Kuei-Fu and Kweh, Qian Long and Kweh, Qian Long and Ko, Chun-You, The Effects of Shared-opinion Audit Reports on Perceptions of Audit Quality (August 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430918
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies