Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Salary Perception and Career Prospects in Audit Firms

58 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2019 Last revised: 19 Feb 2020

Ahmad Hammami

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Elisabeth Peltier

Concordia University, Quebec; Concordia University, Quebec

Date Written: February 16, 2020

Abstract

We examine the role that auditor’s salary perception has on audit quality and delay. Using Glassdoor ratings by U.S. Big 6 audit firm employees in audit and assurance, we first document that there is discrepancy between pay perception and reality. The discrepancy is explained, though not completely, by salary level, comparisons to peers and superiors, firm-wide attitudes, cost of living and human capital in the area, work-life balance, and perceived career prospects. Surprisingly, the unexplained pay dissatisfaction relates positively with audit quality (small profits and going concern opinions) and audit efficiency (audit report lag), after controlling for salary level. Further tests show that an audit employee’s expectation of career opportunities moderates this result. Our findings contribute to a greater understanding of the audit employee-level factors that influence audit work outcomes.

Keywords: Audit firms, Big 6, Salary, Pay satisfaction, Salary perception, Career opportunities, Glassdoor

JEL Classification: M42, M41, J30

Suggested Citation:

Hammami, Ahmad and Moldovan, Rucsandra and Peltier, Elisabeth, Salary Perception and Career Prospects in Audit Firms (February 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3431424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3431424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Darryl B. Rice , Regina Taylor , Yiding Wang , Sijing Wei , Yingfeng Ge
My Company Cares About My Success…I Think: Clarifying Why and When A Firm’s Ethical Reputation Impacts Employees’ Subjective Career Success
Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming · 46 Pages · Posted: 13 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,984
RANK
220,537
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies