Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence of the Relationship between PCAOB Inspection Outcomes and the Use of Structured Audit Technologies

Colleen M. Boland, Brian E. Daugherty, and Denise Dickins (2019) Evidence of the Relationship between PCAOB Inspection Outcomes and the Use of Structured Audit Technologies. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory: May 2019, Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 57-77.

Posted: 8 Aug 2019

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Brian Daugherty

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Denise Dickins

East Carolina University

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) inspection outcomes and auditors' use of structured audit technologies (SATs) by conducting interviews with audit partners of firms inspected annually by the PCAOB, surveying triennially-inspected auditing firms, and relating auditors' reported SAT adoptions and use with their firm-specific inspection outcomes. It has been observed that auditors are adopting SATs to improve PCAOB inspection outcomes. While our evidence is consistent with this observation and motivation, we do not find evidence that SATs are an effective strategy to improve inspection outcomes. We discuss the potential reasons for this inconsistency, the most important of which may be auditors' expressed concerns about the negative impact SATs have on auditors' critical thinking skills, professional judgment, and skepticism. Supplemental tests relating auditors' SAT adoptions to their client-specific audit fees also provide initial support for auditors' reports that SATs are efficient audit tools.

Keywords: standardized audit forms and processes, decision aids, critical thinking, professional judgment, skepticism, PCAOB inspections, audit fees, audit efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Boland, Colleen M. and Daugherty, Brian and Dickins, Denise, Evidence of the Relationship between PCAOB Inspection Outcomes and the Use of Structured Audit Technologies (May 1, 2019). Colleen M. Boland, Brian E. Daugherty, and Denise Dickins (2019) Evidence of the Relationship between PCAOB Inspection Outcomes and the Use of Structured Audit Technologies. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory: May 2019, Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 57-77., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3432707
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies