Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors’ Incentives Affect Materiality Assessments of Prior-Period Misstatements?

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Aug 2019 Last revised: 7 Jan 2022

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: January 4, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether auditors' incentives affect materiality assessments of prior-period misstatements. Interviews with global network firm partners reveal consistency across firms in the process used to assess prior-period misstatements and highlight points in the process where judgments are most susceptible to auditors’ conscious or subconscious biases. In related empirical tests, we find that auditors assess misstatements as less material (i.e., misstatements are disclosed less prominently) when auditors face greater engagement risk (comprised of the risk of litigation and reputation loss) or have greater incentives to please important clients. These effects only occur when auditor incentives to avoid further litigation or client losses within an audit office are most salient and when the quantitative magnitude of the misstatement is in a range subject to greater professional judgment. Thus, we identify boundary conditions on the extent to which auditor incentives affect materiality judgments. Finally, additional tests suggest that neither local engagement partners nor professional practice partners are immune from these incentives. Our study should be informative to audit firms when designing and updating quality control structures.

Keywords: Materiality; Incentives; Litigation and reputation risk; Engagement risk; Misstatement correction disclosure; Escalation of commitment

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Schmardebeck, Roy and Seidel, Timothy A., Do Auditors’ Incentives Affect Materiality Assessments of Prior-Period Misstatements? (January 4, 2022). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3432547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3432547
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,766
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies