Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informativeness of the Expanded Audit Report: Evidence from China

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-104

61 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2019 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Dan Li

Tsinghua University - School of Economics and Management

Muzhi Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 28, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the key audit matters (KAMs) disclosed in expanded audit reports as a part of recent regulatory reforms are informative for investors in an emerging economy setting. Using the recent adoption of expanded audit reports for firms listed exclusively in Mainland China, we find robust evidence that the abnormal trading volume and earnings response coefficients (ERCs) are higher and that stock price synchronicity is lower during the postadoption period than during the preadoption period. In additional tests, we find some evidence that KAMs are more informative for non-state-owned enterprises (non-SOEs), smaller firms, and firms that have a smaller analyst following. Finally, we also find that investors respond to the characteristics of KAM disclosures, providing corroborative evidence of the informativeness of these disclosures. Overall, our study provides systematic evidence that KAMs are incrementally informative for investors in an emerging economy.

Keywords: expanded audit report, information content, key audit matters

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Beng Wee and Lee, Jimmy and Li, Dan and Wang, Muzhi, Informativeness of the Expanded Audit Report: Evidence from China (June 28, 2023). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2019-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3432107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3432107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J L Zhu , M Amstad , G Sun , W Xiong
The development of the Chinese stock market
The Handbook of China's Financial System Posted: 2020
M Almulla , M E Bradbury
Auditor, client, and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report. Working paper Posted: 2019
M A F Altawalbeh , M E S Alhajaya
The investor reaction to the disclosure of key audit matters: Empirical evidence from Jordan
International Business Research , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 2019
J S Ang , Y Ma
Transparency in Chinese stocks: A study of earnings forecasts by professional analysts
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 155 Posted: 1999
Load more
8 Citations
Jeff Zeyun Chen , Karen K. Nelson , Yanyan Wang , Lisheng Yu
What Does the Auditor Say? Auditors’ Disclosures of Critical Audit Matters and Audit Fees
Accounting Horizons, forthcoming · 39 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 27 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 1,016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dan Lynch , Aaron Mandell , Linette Rousseau
<p><b><span>The Consequences of Expanded Audit Reporting: Implications of Tax Key Audit Matters for Tax Attribute Valuation and Auditor-Provided Tax Services </span></b><b><span></span></b></p>
69 Pages · Posted: 29 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 22 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 1,055
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian E. Daugherty , Denise Dickins , Marshall K. Pitman , Wayne A. Tervo
The process of identifying and reporting CAMs: early evidence
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 16 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Elizabeth F. Gutierrez , Miguel Minutti-Meza , Kay Tatum , Maria Vulcheva
<b><span>The Consequences of Expanded Audit Reports for Small and Risky Companies</span></b>
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming&nbsp; · 54 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 30 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 566
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,046
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,062
RANK
49,182
8 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies