Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Audit and Quality of Accounting and Financial Information in Cameroonian Companies

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research Vol.7, No.3, pp.55-72, April 2019

18 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2019

Michael Forzeh Fossung

Fomic Polytechnic University; University of Buea

Magang Wapi Saurelle La Fortune

University of Dschang

Date Written: April 30, 2019

Abstract

In the present economic and financial context of internalisation of commercial transactions and investments, benchmarks in the quality of financial and accounting information within a company are sought by the various stakeholders with quality and reliable financial information being the main factors of concern. Given its geographical setting and the fact that most Cameroonian companies are not listed, this study adopts a new approach to investigate the contribution of external audit in improving the quality of accounting and financial information produced by unlisted companies like Cameroon. To achieve, data were gathered through a survey on a sample of 52 employees of companies in Cameroon. Linear regression and the one factor ANOVA analysis were used to test the research hypotheses. The results indicate that the auditor’s field of specialisation did not reduce manipulation of accounting and financial information, but that the auditor’s mandate duration and the auditor’s reputation have a significant influence on the quality of accounting and financial information.

Keywords: external, audit, quality, financial, statement, Cameroon

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Fossung, Michael Forzeh and Saurelle La Fortune, Magang Wapi, External Audit and Quality of Accounting and Financial Information in Cameroonian Companies (April 30, 2019). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research Vol.7, No.3, pp.55-72, April 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
S Agoes , M Sarwoko
An Empirical Analysis of Auditor's Industry Specialization, Auditor's Independence and Audit Procedures on Audit Quality: Evidence from Indonesia
Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 164 , p. 271 - 281 Posted: 2014
S M Albring , R J Elder , J Zhou
IPO Underpricing and Audit Quality Differentiation within Non-Big 5 Firms
International Journal of Auditing , volume 11 , p. 115 - 131 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S A Al-Ghamdi
The investigation into Earnings Management Practices and The Role Of Corporate Governance and External Audit in Emerging Markets: Empirical Evidence From Saudi Listed Companies Posted: 2012
A R Almutairi , K A Dunn , T Skantz
Auditor Tenure, Auditor Specialisation, and information asymmetry
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 600 - 623 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
679
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,243
RANK
87,994
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies