Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Style and Financial Statement Comparability: New Evidence from the U.S. Market

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, volume 51, issue 9-10, 2024[10.1111/jbfa.12798]

52 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2019 Last revised: 18 Aug 2025

Tracie Frost

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Chris He

Florida Atlantic University

Xin Luo

Marquette University

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: February 20, 2024

Abstract

We explore the influence of individual audit partner style on financial statement comparability in a U.S. setting using newly available data. We find evidence of an audit partner style effect on comparability incremental to audit firm and audit office effects. Our results are consistent across several comparability measures and are economically significant. For example, the audit partner effect is associated with a 12.59% decrease in the mean difference in abnormal accruals compared to a 4.4% decrease for firm pairs audited by the same Big 4 audit office. We also find that audit partner expertise and experience have a greater influence on comparability than audit office expertise and experience. Our results are consistent in endogeneity and robustness tests including (1) auditor switching tests, (2) entropy balancing, (3) placebo tests, and (4) controlling for clients’ economic similarity. Our results suggest that the association between audit partner style and financial statement comparability persists in highly regulatory environments and corroborate the PCAOB’s intuition that the role of the engagement partner “is of singular importance” to the outcome of the audit (PCAOB 2011).

Keywords: Audit Partners; Individual Auditor; Auditor Style; Financial Statement Comparability

JEL Classification: G01, M4, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Frost, Tracie and He, Chris and Luo, Xin and Stice, Derrald, Audit Partner Style and Financial Statement Comparability: New Evidence from the U.S. Market (February 20, 2024). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, volume 51, issue 9-10, 2024[10.1111/jbfa.12798], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,053
RANK
441,817
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies