Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real effects of tax audits

Review of Accounting Studies

62 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2019 Last revised: 8 Aug 2022

Andrew Belnap

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Alex Turk

Government of the United States of America - Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

Tax audits are a necessary component of the tax system, but policymakers and others have expressed concerns about their potentially adverse real effects. Understanding the causal effects of tax audits has been hampered by lack of data and because typically tax audits are not randomly assigned. We use administrative data from random tax audits of small businesses to examine the real effects of being subject to a tax audit. We find that audited firms are more likely to go out of business following the audit. The effect is concentrated in firms that underreport their taxes, although we find some evidence that the administrative costs of an audit also negatively affect firm survival. Among firms that continue as going concerns, we find evidence that audits have adverse effects on future revenues but no effect on future wages, employment, or investment. Finally, we find that tax audits have side benefits, causing firms to make changes to improve their tax efficiency.

Keywords: IRS audit, real effect, corporate tax

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Belnap, Andrew and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Maydew, Edward L. and Turk, Alex, Real effects of tax audits (August 5, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3437137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3437137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Angrist , J S Pischke
Mastering 'Metrics Posted: 2014
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E Towery
Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
W H Beaver , M Correia , M F Mcnichols
Financial Statement Analysis and the Prediction of Financial Distress
Foundations and Trends® in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 173 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,670
RANK
115,646
17 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies