Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Effort, Materiality and Audit Fees: Evidence from the Adoption of IFRS in Australia

Accounting Research Journal, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Aug 2019

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Warwick John Stent

Massey University

Date Written: August 16, 2019

Abstract

Purpose-This study investigates the association between IFRS effort due to higher levels of material adjustments and audit fees. In addition, this paper tests whether these associations differ between industry specialist auditors and non-specialist auditors.

Design/Methodology/Approach- We measure IFRS effort by using differences between local GAAP and IFRS. More specifically, we measure the differences in the balances of accounts that are prepared under IFRS as opposed to the previously used Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) standards. We posit that higher material adjustments and more risk to fair presentation of financial statements require additional accounting and auditing effort (‘IFRS effort’).

Findings- We find that audit fees are higher when accounting standards are more material and complex at an aggregate level. Nevertheless, not all standards are equally complex and/or material and not all individual standards contribute to higher audit fees. In addition, our results show that the positive association between IFRS effort and audit fees is more pronounced when firms are audited by city-level industry specialists than by non-industry specialists.

Originality/value- Overall, our results are consistent with the prediction of increasing audit fees for firms requiring higher levels of IFRS effort compared to firms requiring lower levels of IFRS effort. Our results contribute to the understanding that not all IFRS are equally complex and, thereby, the standards require different levels of auditor effort. Isolating specific standards based on materiality/risk levels is informative to standard setters for standard setting, standard implementation and post-implementation review of standards.

Keywords: IFRS, Audit, ISP, Complexity, Audit Fee, Brand Premium

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Miah, Muhammad Shahin and Jiang, Haiyan and Rahman, Asheq and Stent, Warwick John, Audit Effort, Materiality and Audit Fees: Evidence from the Adoption of IFRS in Australia (August 16, 2019). Accounting Research Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438059
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies