Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Reporting Risks of Material Misstatement in the Audit Report Impact Audit Adjustments? Experimental Evidence from U.K. Audit Partners and Senior Managers

48 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2019 Last revised: 18 Sep 2020

Lauren C. Reid

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Date Written: September 17, 2020

Abstract

This experimental study examines whether requiring auditors to report risks of material misstatement (and related auditor findings) affects audit adjustments. Experienced audit partners and senior managers in the United Kingdom proposed audit adjustments under three different reporting regimes: (a) an audit report where no risks are disclosed, (b) a report where risks of material misstatement are disclosed, and (c) a report where risks of misstatement are disclosed, augmented with the auditor’s findings with respect to those risks. Our results indicate that disclosing risks of material misstatement without findings has no effect on audit adjustments, but that lower audit adjustments occur when the disclosure also includes findings, and that this result is driven by auditors requiring particularly low adjustments when they indicate a finding that the post-audit account balance is “mildly optimistic” (as opposed to “reasonable”). Results also suggest that this tendency is unintentional. Overall, these findings indicate that auditors unintentionally trade off audit adjustments for disclosures, consistent with increased detailed disclosure providing an opportunity for “moral licensing” that enables auditors to satisfy client demands while also complying with professional standards. From a practice perspective, these results suggest that disclosure of critical or key audit matters as recently required by U.S. and international standard setters may not affect auditor behavior, but that allowing disclosure of additional findings as done voluntarily in some jurisdictions may have the unintended consequence of reducing the size of audit adjustments that auditors require.

Keywords: audit report, risks of material misstatement, audit adjustments, critical audit matters

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Reid, Lauren C. and Nelson, Mark W. and Carcello, Joseph V., Does Reporting Risks of Material Misstatement in the Audit Report Impact Audit Adjustments? Experimental Evidence from U.K. Audit Partners and Senior Managers (September 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3439508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3439508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Backof , K Bowlin , B Goodson
The importance of clarification of auditors' responsibilities under the new audit reporting standards. Working paper Posted: 2020
K Brasel , M Doxey , J Grenier , A Reffett
Risk disclosure preceding negative outcomes: The effects of reporting critical audit matters on judgments of auditor liability
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1345 - 1362 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T Brown , T M Majors , M E Peecher
A Catch-22 in Audit Litigation? Interventions that Decrease Assessed Auditor Culpability by Reducing Assessed Fraud Detectability and Auditor Acquiescence Generate Reactance Effects that Increase Assessed Damages. Working paper Posted: 2020
D M Cain , G Loewenstein , D A Moore
The dirt on coming clean: Perverse effects of disclosing conflicts of interest
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,745
RANK
224,403
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies