Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Audit Partner Signature Disclosure – Effects on Credibility Assessments and Liability Perceptions

55 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2019 Last revised: 18 May 2020

Julia K. M. Schlueter

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: May 17, 2020

Abstract

Restoring the credibility of the auditor’s report by disclosing an audit partner’s signature has been the subject of recent auditing standard setting. This study presents an experimental examination of the effect of voluntary audit partner signature disclosure on nonprofessional investor credibility assessments of auditor’s reports and perceived audit partner liability. We find that disclosing the audit partner’s signature enhances auditor’s report credibility unless obtainable information is over-endorsed by the disclosure. However, we could not detect any substantial effect of voluntary audit partner signature disclosure on perceived audit partner liability. We provide evidence consistent with source credibility theory that the audit partner’s signature is used as a heuristic cue in information processing, thereby affecting nonprofessional investor judgments. In light of the increasing interest in and reforms of the auditor’s report, our findings contribute to a decade of auditing standard setting discussions and relativize the perceived liability threats linked to audit partner related disclosures.

Keywords: audit opinion credibility, audit partner liability, audit partner signature, heuristic cues, disclosure

JEL Classification: D83, L15, M4, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Schlueter, Julia K. M. and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Voluntary Audit Partner Signature Disclosure – Effects on Credibility Assessments and Liability Perceptions (May 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 4-5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S M S Ahmad , L Y Ling , R M Anwar , M A Faudzi , A Shakil
Analysis of the effects and relationship of perceived handwritten signature's size, graphical complexity, and legibility with dynamic parameters for forged and genuine samples
Journal of Forensic Sciences , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 724 - 731 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Structural equation modeling in practice: A review and recommended two-step approach
Psychological Bulletin , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
454,090
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies