Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Audit Technology on Audit Task Outcomes: Evidence for Technology-Based Audit Techniques

55 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2019 Last revised: 13 Oct 2022

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Adi Masli

University of Arkansas - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 13, 2022

Abstract

We use two surveys and interviews of individual auditors and chief audit executives (CAE) to examine their perceptions of technology-based audit techniques (TBATs). Auditors perceive TBATs as beneficial. Specifically, a one standard deviation increase in the use of TBATs is associated with completing 18.5 percent more audits, finding 10.8 percent more risk factors, providing 12.3 percent more recommendations, and decreasing audit days by 13.5 percent. However, CAEs also perceive TBATs as costly. A one standard deviation increase in the use of TBATs is associated with a 15.5 increase in the size of the internal audit function. Finally, interviews with CAEs suggest that TBATs are not used more often because of difficulties in quantifying TBATs’ benefits, observing TBATs’ benefits in a timely manner, and hiring auditors with appropriate skills. Overall, TBATs stand to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of audit tasks, but auditors struggle to quantify their net cost-benefit tradeoff.

Keywords: Technology, Internal Audit, Data Analytics, Auditing, Technology-Based Audit Techniques

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Masli, Adi and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Wood, David A., The Impact of Audit Technology on Audit Task Outcomes: Evidence for Technology-Based Audit Techniques (October 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3444119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
AICPA seeks assurance research proposals for a second year
AICPA Posted: 2017-02-19
Welcome to the New Era of Audit. Efficiency Posted: 2019-08-17
M G Alles , G Gray
Incorporating big data in audits: Identifying inhibitors and a research agenda to address those inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,917
RANK
12,416
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies