Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners’ Co-Working Experience and Audit Outcomes

69 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019

Ting‐Chiao Huang

Monash University

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Steven E. Kaplan

Arizona State University

Yi-Hung Lin

Monash University

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

Issues related to audit team personnel and the resultant effects on audit outcomes have not been investigated widely with archival data due to data unavailability. In this study, we examine whether and how increases in co-working experience between the lead and the concurring partners impact engagement audit quality and audit efficiency. A priori, increases in co-working experience could increase or decrease audit quality. In contrast, we expect increases in co-working experience will increase audit efficiency. Using a unique setting, Taiwan, where the identities of these two partners are known, we find increases in co-working experience are positively associated with audit quality and audit efficiency. Our results are robust to alternative measures of co-working experience and audit quality and to controlling for potentially omitted variables and selection bias. Further tests show that the effects of co-working experience on audit quality and audit efficiency are more pronounced when client audit risk is higher, the audit firm is not an industry expert, audit firm tenure is relatively shorter, and the two audit partners more consistently serve in only one role.

Keywords: audit partner co-working experience; audit quality; audit efficiency; audit tenure; audit industry expert

JEL Classification: M4; M42

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Ting-Chiao and Chen, Chen and Kaplan, Steven E. and Lin, Yi-Hung Jerry, Audit Partners’ Co-Working Experience and Audit Outcomes (August 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444054 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3444054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Al-Ajmi
Audit and reporting delays: Evidence from an emerging market
Advances in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 226 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Al-Sehali , N Spear
The decision relevance and timeliness of accounting earnings in Saudi Arabia
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 197 - 217 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S K Asare , L S Mcdaniel
The effects of familiarity with the preparer and task complexity on the effectiveness of the audit review process
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 159 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,708
RANK
206,173
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies