Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The More You Know: How Auditors Mitigate Opportunism in Fair Value Measurements

56 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2019 Last revised: 10 Jun 2022

Natalie Berfeld

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: June 6, 2022

Abstract

I study the role of auditors as monitor of their clients’ fair value (FV) measurements. Specifically, using a setting in the insurance industry where I can identify fair values at the security level, I find that audit firms develop institutional know-how with respect to appropriate security FVs. This know-how is associated with decreased dispersion in valuations of the same security across clients, and, importantly, is used to mitigate incentives for opportunistic FV reporting. In particular, I find that knowledgeable audit firms mitigate adverse incentives associated with market concentration and client importance at the audit office level, as well as the incentives of clients to strategically report security FV. This paper sheds light on the mechanisms that shape the role of audit firms in monitoring the increasingly important yet subjective FV determination process.

Keywords: Fair Value, Auditing, Reporting Quality; insurance companies

JEL Classification: G20, G22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Berfeld, Natalie, The More You Know: How Auditors Mitigate Opportunism in Fair Value Measurements (June 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3447673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3447673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
L J Abbott , K Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reactions to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection of small audit firms
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Inc Acuitas
's survey of fair value audit deficiencies Posted: 2017
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2012
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
697,815
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies