Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coaching Quality and Subordinate Work Attitudes in the Multiple Supervisor Audit Context

Accounting Horizons (forthcoming). doi: 10.2308/HORIZONS-2020-025

Posted: 16 Sep 2019 Last revised: 17 Feb 2021

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Joleen Kremin

Portland State University

Date Written: January 28, 2021

Abstract

Audit subordinates typically work with multiple supervisors who are likely to vary in their level of coaching quality (CQ). While prior research suggests a low CQ supervisor could negatively affect a subordinate’s work attitudes, theory indicates that the presence of other positive coaching experiences may buffer against the negative influence of a low CQ supervisor. We investigate by asking participants to provide information on their coaching experiences with three supervisors. We then examine how perceptions of supervisors’ CQ interact to affect subordinates’ work attitudes. We find that the effect of a perceived low CQ supervisor on organizational commitment and turnover intention is mitigated when the CQ of another supervisor is high or when a relatively high CQ supervisor is also a mentor. Investigating factors that inhibit CQ, we find that supervisors’ lack of capability explains variation in lower CQ supervisors, whereas lack of presence explains variation for higher CQ supervisors.

Keywords: Auditing; Coaching Quality; Multiple Supervisors; Organizational Commitment; Turnover

JEL Classification: L2, M40, M42, M51, M53

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Bedard, Jean C. and Kremin, Joleen, Coaching Quality and Subordinate Work Attitudes in the Multiple Supervisor Audit Context (January 28, 2021). Accounting Horizons (forthcoming). doi: 10.2308/HORIZONS-2020-025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3449185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3449185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Lindsay M. Andiola , Joseph F. Brazel , Denise Downey , Tammie Rech Schaefer
Coaching Today’s Auditors: What Causes Reviewers to Adopt a More Developmental Approach
Andiola, L.A., Brazel, J. F., Downey, D. H., and Schaefer, T.J. 2024. Coaching today's auditors: What causes reviewers to adopt a more developmental approach? Accounting, Organizations and Society 112: 101548 · 49 Pages · Posted: 23 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 27 May 2024 · Downloads: 287
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lindsay M. Andiola , Jean C. Bedard , Kimberly D. Westermann
It's Not my Fault! Insights into Subordinate Auditors' Attributions and Emotions Following Audit Review
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies