Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Auditor Designation by the Regulator on Auditor Decisions: Evidence from Korea

43 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2019

Taesup Shim

Graduate School of Science in Taxation, University of Seoul

Su Jin Pae

Chung-Ang University

Eugene Choi

Graduate School of Science in Taxation, University of Seoul

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

Korean market regulator designates external auditors for certain companies that have strong incentives to manage their earnings or that require strict external audits (the auditor designation system, ADS). The ADS offers an interesting research setting for examining the effects of transferring the power of auditor selection to the regulator. Based on the results of a quasi-experiment with Korean auditors, we find that the ADS may be effective in reducing aggressiveness and diverse decisions in a hypothetical impairment loss recognition case. Although more research is needed on the various types of audit engagement systems, the results imply that the ADS may improve audit quality. Thus, auditor designation by the regulator for certain companies that try to manage their earnings (i.e., the ADS) may be a favorable alternative to the current audit engagement system.

Keywords: auditor designation, audit engagement system, consensus, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Shim, Taesup and Pae, Su Jin and Choi, Yu, The Effects of Auditor Designation by the Regulator on Auditor Decisions: Evidence from Korea (August 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3451144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A H Ashton
Does consensus imply accuracy in accounting studies of decision making?
The Accounting Review , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 185 Posted: 1985
R H Ashton
An experimental study of internal control judgments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 157 Posted: 1974
Crossref
L Babcock , G Loewenstein
Explaining bargaining impasse: The role of self-serving biases
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
L Babcock , G Loewenstein , S Issacharoff , C Camerer
Biased judgments of fairness in bargaining
The American Economic Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1337 - 1343 Posted: 1995
Load more
1 Citations
Ki Wook Kim , Taesup Shim , Ji Seon Yoo
Can Ethics and Economic Incentives Mitigate Tax Preparers' Aggressive Judgments and Decisions?
JBEE-D-22-00034 · 28 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 69
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
449,075
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies