Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence and Analysts’ Forecast Characteristics: Proof of Impairment of Goodwill

35 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2019

Alassane Ouattara

CESAG Business School

Date Written: September 5, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the association between auditor’s independence and financial analysts’ forecast revisions in the specific case of goodwill impairment testing. Using a sample of 1,247 firm-year observations representing 177 firms listed on the CAC All-Tradable (the former SBF 250) over the 2006-2013 period, firstly, we found significant and negative effects of individual auditors' independence (independence of Leader as well as that of the Follower auditor) on financial analysts' forecast revisions for firms that do not book goodwill impairment and exhibit lower operating performance. Secondly, we found significant and negative effects of joint auditors' independence on financial analysts' forecast revisions for both firms with lower operating performance and those who do not book goodwill impairment testing (hereafter non-impairer firms). Our results are robust regarding other proxy of financial analysts’ characteristic such as accuracies. Our results conclude homogeneous effects of auditors' independence (single and joint) on financial analysts' forecast revisions for non-impairer firms with lower operating performance and their reference group. Our findings are consistent to previous studies related to auditor’s independence, suggesting that auditor’s independence seems to be a key factor in the resolution of agency problems and in reducing information asymmetry which leads to market efficiency.

Keywords: Joint Audit, Auditor's Independency, Impairment, Analysts' Forecast Revisions, Goodwill, Market to Book Value, ROA, SFAS 141 & 142, IFRS 3

JEL Classification: G17, G32, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ouattara, Alassane, Auditor Independence and Analysts’ Forecast Characteristics: Proof of Impairment of Goodwill (September 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3451267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3451267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
538,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies