Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Catch More Flies with Honey: An Examination of Techniques to Mitigate Client Reactions to Increased Professional Skepticism

Auditing: A Journal of Practice Ȧ Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2022-094]

Posted: 21 Sep 2019 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

Kip Holderness

West Virginia University

Jesse C. Robertson

University of North Texas

Mary B. Curtis

University of North Texas

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract

Professional skepticism (PS) is essential to audit quality but can harm auditor-client relations. We rely on Expectancy Violations Theory (EVT) to predict that clients negatively react to higher than expected PS. We also examine whether auditors can use various impression management strategies to mitigate these detrimental outcomes. Experimental results indicate that higher than expected PS creates negative affect toward the auditor, which in turn reduces client cooperation and harms auditor-client relations. Furthermore, auditors’ use of ingratiation reduces the negative affect resulting from higher than expected PS and helps auditors maintain client cooperation (using two measures of client evidence provision) and client relations. Of particular importance, results indicate increased PS does not improve evidence collection unless the auditor actively alleviates client negative affect caused by increased PS. Thus, auditors’ use of ingratiation may improve perceptions of client service and lead to increased audit quality, rendering the application of PS more effective

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Eutsler, Jared and Holderness, Darin Kip and Robertson, Jesse C. and Curtis, Mary B., You Catch More Flies with Honey: An Examination of Techniques to Mitigate Client Reactions to Increased Professional Skepticism (August 1, 2019). Auditing: A Journal of Practice Ȧ Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2022-094], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3452753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-094
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies