Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Use Audit Partner Identification? Evidence From the KPMG ‘Steal the Exam’ Scandal

Abbott, L. J., W. L. Buslepp, R. Barber, and P. Sapkota. Do investors find audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG ‘steal the exam’ scandal Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Oct 2019 Last revised: 29 Aug 2022

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Russell Barber

University of Colorado Denver

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Pradeep Sapkota

University of North Texas

Date Written: September 5, 2019

Abstract

On April 11, 2017, KPMG LLP announced that six employees at the firm had participated in a scheme to misappropriate confidential information related to the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s planned inspections of the firm’s audits (KPMG 2017). The incident was colloquially labeled the KPMG “steal the exam” scandal. We use this setting to investigate whether and to what extent the market finds individual partner identification useful. Because KPMG withheld the names of the audit partners involved in the scandal, the market was unable to subsequently distinguish between rotation-induced audit partner turnover or regulatory-related audit partner terminations. Following information economics models of non-disclosure, we predict that the market would interpret information about KPMG audit partner turnover as evidence of regulatory-related audit partner terminations and impose costs on KPMG audit clients that experienced audit partner turnover. The results are consistent with our prediction in that only KPMG audit clients with audit partner turnover exhibited negative abnormal returns. In sum, our results suggest that the U.S. securities market finds audit partner identification useful and informative.

Keywords: Form AP; KPMG; PCAOB

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Barber, Russell and Buslepp, William L. and Sapkota, Pradeep, Do Investors Use Audit Partner Identification? Evidence From the KPMG ‘Steal the Exam’ Scandal (September 5, 2019). Abbott, L. J., W. L. Buslepp, R. Barber, and P. Sapkota. Do investors find audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG ‘steal the exam’ scandal Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3456894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies