Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Concentration, Audit Fees, and Audit Quality: A Cross-Country Analysis of Complex Audit Clients

49 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2019

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Brett Kawada

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 20, 2019

Abstract

Regulators around the world are concerned about the potentially harmful effects of high audit market concentration on audit pricing and quality. However, results in the overall literature have failed to reach consensus on this issue. We contribute to this debate by arguing that the audit market is segmented and that concentration in the Big 4 segment of the market leads to higher audit pricing. Accordingly, our analyses use international data and focus on concentration within the Big 4 group of firms in across countries. We find that audit fees are increasing in our concentration measure for clients where the barriers to entry by competing auditors are higher, as proxied by client size, international operations, and IFRS use. Finally, we find evidence that audit quality is decreasing in Big 4 market concentration for these types of engagements. This indicates a wealth transfer from shareholders to audit firms when auditor concentration is high because these complex clients are charged more, but receive audits that are of lower quality.

Keywords: audit market concentration; audit fees; audit pricing; cross-country audit fees, global audit fees, International Financial Reporting Standards, client complexity

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Joshua L. and Kawada, Brett and Michas, Paul N., Audit Market Concentration, Audit Fees, and Audit Quality: A Cross-Country Analysis of Complex Audit Clients (September 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3457551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3457551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
T Bell , W Landsman , D Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Audit market concentration and auditor tolerance for earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 1171 - 1203 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 129 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E Carson
Industry specialization by global audit firm networks
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 382 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,741
RANK
115,944
10 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies