Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study into the Use of Audit Data Analytics on Audit Engagements

60 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2019 Last revised: 15 Jun 2020

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Finn Kinserdal

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Thomas McKee

Medical University of South Carolina

Date Written: May 8, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the use of audit data analytics (ADA) in current audit practice. First, we
interviewed the heads of professional practice of five international public accounting firms in
Norway. We find that they differ in strategies on how to implement ADA and the heads report
significant uncertainty about the supervisory inspection authorities’ response to the use of ADA.
Second, we administered a questionnaire to 216 engagement partners and managers about their
perceptions of ADA as well as their actual ADA use on 109 audit engagements. Overall, the
attitudes towards ADA usefulness are positive. Analysis of the audit engagements suggests use
of ADA is relatively limited and use of more “advanced” ADA is rare. More ADA are used for
clients with integrated ERP/IT systems and for newly tendered audit engagements. We also
provide details of actual ADA use on each phase of the audit. We discuss our findings from an
institutional theory perspective.

Keywords: Audit data analytics (ADA); audit engagements; auditors’ perceptions about ADA; actual use of ADA.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Kinserdal, Finn and Messier Jr, William F. and McKee, Thomas, An Exploratory Study into the Use of Audit Data Analytics on Audit Engagements (May 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3458485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3458485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of Big Data by the audit profession
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 59 - 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A M Lillis
A framework for the analysis of interview data from multiple field research sites
Accounting & Finance , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
W G false , K Lee , F Huang , Q Li
Multidimensional audit data selection (MADS): A framework for using data analytics in audit data selection process
Accounting Horizons , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 127 - 140 Posted: 2019
Crossref
B O&apos;dwyer
What's qualitative in accounting (field) research? An introduction to qualitative field research in accounting at the 25th Contemporary Accounting Research (CAR) Conference Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,460
RANK
33,341
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies