Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Assurance of Sustainability Reporting: Evidence From an Emerging Economy

Accounting Research Journal, September 2019

32 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2019

Abeer Hassan

University of West of Scotland

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Nawreen Sobhan

University of the West of Scotland - School of Business & Enterprise

Mary Fletcher

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of the West of Scotland

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 24, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to investigate the supply and demand side of sustainability assurance in Bangladesh.

Design/methodology/approach – Drawing on signalling theory, a logistic regression model is used for a sample of 100 of the largest Bangladeshi companies to study the relationships between assurance, sustainability disclosure, industry membership and reporting format.

Findings – Our results show that companies which produce more sustainability information are more likely to get their sustainability assured, to be from non-carbon intensive industries, and are more likely to integrate their sustainability information with the financial annual reports. Our results support the argument that organisations based in weaker legal environments are more likely to secure assurance as this adds to the credibility and reliability of sustainability reports.

Implications – The findings of this paper will prove valuable to practitioners and researchers. Practitioners, including assurance providers and sustainability reporting managers, will benefit from our study as it covers both the demand and supply side characteristics of assurance. Researchers will benefit from the study as it investigates assurance practices in the developing country of Bangladesh.

Limitations – This paper has limitations which raise some issues for future research. Firstly, we have covered only large companies, therefore future research could examine the differences between small and large companies in relation to assurance. Secondly, our data consists of company sustainability disclosure information in the fiscal year 2015. Longitudinal studies are recommended to extend this research. Finally, future research could examine the moderating effects of geographical location on the relationship between assurance (and its providers) and other variables.

Originality/value – This is the first study to examine both the supply and demand sides of sustainability assurance in Bangladesh. We also introduce reporting format when measuring the relationship between assurance and its determinant factors at micro level. The study also links assurance to signalling theory.


Keywords: Assurance; Sustainability disclosure; Signalling theory; Bangladesh; Industry membership; Reporting format

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Abeer and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Sobhan, Nawreen and Fletcher, Mary and Fletcher, Mary, Voluntary Assurance of Sustainability Reporting: Evidence From an Emerging Economy (September 24, 2019). Accounting Research Journal, September 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3458885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Adhikariparajuli , A Hassan , M Fletcher , A A Elamer
Integrated Reporting in UK Higher Education Institutions
Sustainability Accounting Posted: 2019
B Ackers , N S Eccles
Mandatory corporate social responsibility assurance practices: The case of King III in South Africa
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 550 Posted: 2015
W Al-Bassam , C G Ntim , K K Opong , Y Downs
Corporate boards and ownership structure as antecedents of corporate governance disclosure in Saudi Arabian publicly listed corporations
Business and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,059
RANK
345,859
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies