Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Expectations Gap and the Role of Audit Education: Evidence from Sri Lanka

Vidyodaya Journal of Management, 2017, Vol. 03(1) 01-26.

26 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Sandhya Jayasena

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka - Faculty of Management Studies

Roshan Ajward

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Hareendra Dissabandara

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: December 30, 2017

Abstract

The study examined the status and impact of audit education on the audit expectation gap, as existence of such a gap is noted to be harmful to the accounting and auditing profession. Accordingly, undergraduates of a regional national university in Sri Lanka (in three categories as: undergraduates who had not followed an auditing course, who had followed a basic auditing course, and who had followed an advanced auditing course) and professional auditors were selected and a questionnaire survey that included statements on the duties of the auditors was administered. The results of the independent sample t-test indicate the existence of an audit expectation gap in the Sri Lankan context; and that audit education had an effect in reducing such a gap. However, further analysis indicated that only an advanced auditing course had resulted in minimizing such expectation gap (particularly in reducing the unreasonable expectation gap) compared to who had followed a basic auditing course. These findings are expected to have significant educational policy implications.

Keywords: Audit Education, Audit Expectation Gap, Professional Auditors, Undergraduates

Suggested Citation:

Jayasena, Sandhya and Ajward, Roshan and Dissabandara, Hareendra, The Audit Expectations Gap and the Role of Audit Education: Evidence from Sri Lanka (December 30, 2017). Vidyodaya Journal of Management, 2017, Vol. 03(1) 01-26., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
S B Adeyemi , O M Uadiale
An empirical investigation of audit expectation gap in Nigeria
African Journal of Business Management , volume 5 , issue 19 , p. 7964 - 7971 Posted: 2011
C Adresson , C Emander
The new auditing standards in Sweden Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Appah
An evaluation of audit expectation gap: Issues and challenges
International Journal of Economic Development Research and Investment , volume 1 , issue 2 & 3 , p. 129 - 141 Posted: 2010
G W Beck
Public accountants in Australia -Their social role. Australiain Accounting Research Foundation Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,845
RANK
117,520
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies