Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Reporting Flexibility on Auditor Risk Judgment – Evidence from a Natural Experiment

54 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

S.C. Winnie Leung

Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong

Xuedan Tao

Tongji University, Shanghai

Date Written: October 9, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates how auditors respond, in terms of their pricing and audit work, to a reduction of clients’ financial reporting discretion upon the implementation of FIN 46R “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” in year 2003. The accounting standard mandatorily requires firms to consolidate the performance of variable interest entities (VIEs) under their control. These entities can no longer be off-balance sheet and managers’ flexibility in using these entities for manipulating earnings is substantially constrained. Using a difference-in-difference research design, we find that auditors charge relatively fewer audit fees and have shorter audit reporting lags for firms which are significantly affected by FIN 46R after its adoption, compared to a group of controlled firms. This result concurs with the view that auditors react favorably to the reduction of clients’ financial reporting discretion, by reducing their audit pricing and audit work. Our finding is concentrated among those clients with higher accrual earnings management constraints and auditors with less client specific knowledge and also auditors who have no clients conducting severe accounting restatements. Our results are robust to different matched control samples and our conclusion remains valid by using an alternative treatment sample which is not affected by the contemporaneous adoption of SOX Act.

Keywords: financial reporting flexibility, variable interest entities, audit pricing, FIN 46R

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chen and Leung, S.C. Winnie and Tao, Xuedan, The Impact of Financial Reporting Flexibility on Auditor Risk Judgment – Evidence from a Natural Experiment (October 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3466699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3466699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Abigail M. Allen , Karthik Ramanna , Sugata Roychowdhury
The Auditing Oligopoly and Lobbying on Accounting Standards
Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 13-054 Pages: 58 Posted: 11 Dec 2012 Last revised: 11 Jun 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
AICPA). 1983. Audit Risk and Conducting an Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 47
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
K Amin , J D Eshleman , C Feng
The Effect of the SEC's XBRL Mandate on
Audit Report Lags. Accounting Horizons , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
464,622
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies