Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fees under Alternative Goodwill Accounting Approaches: Evidence from the Adoption of the Impairment-Only Approach in Australia

43 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Date Written: October 12, 2019

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) constituents expressed concerns about the cost of the impairment-only approach for goodwill accounting under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Considering these concerns, the IASB is now reviewing the approach. Motivated by this debate, we examine the association between goodwill and audit fee under two alternative goodwill accounting approaches in Australia – the dual approach under pre-IFRSs Australian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the impairment-only approach under IFRSs. We find that goodwill does not have an audit fee-increasing impact under the impairment-only approach than under the dual approach. This result is robust across alternative variable measurements, alternative samples and alternative models. The result is of potential interest to the IASB and its constituents.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment; goodwill accounting approaches; IFRS; audit fee

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M42,

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Rahman, Asheq, Audit Fees under Alternative Goodwill Accounting Approaches: Evidence from the Adoption of the Impairment-Only Approach in Australia (October 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3468640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3468640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Schipper
<Adoption of IFRS -impact on the value relevance of intangible assets Chalmers AAR.pdf> Posted: 2010
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Considering the Effects of Accounting Standards -Position Paper Posted: 2012-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
434,536
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies