Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Four Public Client Portfolios: Is the Risk Dispersed?

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(4): 501-532, 2019

32 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2019

Renee Flasher

Penn State Harrisburg

James Schmutte

Ball State University

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

We examine the Big Four public client portfolios to determine if there appears to be homogeneity of business risk — an overall firm risk of loss arising from accepted clients — across the four accounting firms’ public company portfolios. If a varying risk profile exists among the firms, then the potential for another “Enron” event resulting in a failing firm may be more likely. Using the Audit Analytics’ proprietary Accounting Quality and Risk Matrix data for almost 4,200 clients, our results find statistical support for one of the Big Four being dissimilar than the others due to its existing long-term client base and its more recent client acquisitions. This result is consistent with one firm taking a unique risk profile relative to the other large firms. This provides a cautionary note to regulators and investors as any further reduction in the Big Four may have a significant negative impact on the capital markets assurance function.

Keywords: Big Four, Accounting Quality and Risk Matrix, Public Client Portfolio, Business Risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Flasher, Renee and Schmutte, James, Big Four Public Client Portfolios: Is the Risk Dispersed? (November 1, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(4): 501-532, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3478923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
J C Anderson , D J Lowe , P M Reckers
Evaluation of auditor decisions: Hindsight bias effects and the expectation gap
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 711 - 737 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Accounting Quality + Risk Matrix Posted: 2015
Stephen Mark Bainbridge
Shareholder Activism and Institutional Investors
UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 05-20 Pages: 19 Posted: 7 Sep 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C R Baker
What is the meaning of "the public interest"? Examining the ideology of the American public accounting profession
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 690 - 703 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
508,508
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies