Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Disclosing Key Audit Matters and Accounting Standard Precision on the Audit Expectation Gap

39 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2019

Paul Coram

University of Adelaide - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Leiyu Wang

University of Adelaide, Students

Date Written: November 01, 2019

Abstract

To try and improve the communicative value of the audit report and therefore help reduce the expectation gap there is a new requirement for auditors to identify and disclose key audit matters (KAMs) in the audit report. This study reports an experiment using non-professional financial report users to investigate the effect of disclosing KAMs on the audit expectation gap. Associated with the relevance of the KAM disclosure is the nature of the matter that the KAM relates to. In relation to accounting matters, an important disclosure issue relates to the level of precision of the accounting standards. This study also explores how differences in precision of accounting standards interacts with the auditor’s reporting of KAMs to affect users’ perceptions. We find that disclosing KAMs per se in the audit report did not affect the audit expectation gap, which is consistent with prior research on the effect of additional disclosures in audit reports. However, the expectation gap actually increased on measures associated with perceptions on the reliability of the audited financial reports when the audit report included a KAM that follows a precise accounting standard, suggesting some potential unintended consequences of this reporting change.

Keywords: key audit matters, critical audit matters, accounting standard precision, audit expecation gap

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Coram, Paul J. and Wang, Leiyu, The Effect of Disclosing Key Audit Matters and Accounting Standard Precision on the Audit Expectation Gap (November 01, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3485879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3485879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
877
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,792
RANK
62,750
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies