Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When the Client Is a Former Auditor: Auditees’ Expert Knowledge and Social Capital As Threats to Staff Auditors’ Operational Independence

75 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2019

Laurence Daoust

HEC Montreal

Bertrand Malsch

Queen's University - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 8, 2019

Abstract

Auditees can play an active role in influencing staff auditors’ professional judgment and skepticism. Yet, although it constitutes one of the main threats to auditor independence, very little is known about the means and extent of auditees’ power during the audit engagement. To address this knowledge gap, our study focuses on a specific category of auditees, namely, auditees who have worked as auditors in large accounting firms. We interviewed 36 of these auditees and triangulated our findings with 11 interviews conducted with auditors. At the theoretical level, we conceptualize auditees’ influence over auditors as intentional and active through the notion of “social power” (Raven 2008). Overall, our analysis shows that the efficacy of auditees’ power during the engagement materializes through the mobilization of two main power resources developed during their time at the firms: (i) expert knowledge of auditing techniques and (ii) social capital. On the one hand, relying on their cognitive authority, auditees’ employ three different power strategies to constrain staff auditors’ operational independence: stage-setting, teaching, and questioning. On the other hand, auditees’ social capital can support the use of two additional strategies: attracting and monitoring. Our triangulation analysis confirms our findings and suggests that auditors may be aware of the threats to independence that auditee expertise and social capital pose. By focusing on auditees’ agentic capabilities—that is, individuals’ capabilities to consciously exert influence over the course of events—we reinterpret the pressures exerted by clients on auditors as the product of strategic actions, and discuss substantive consequences for independence risk.

Keywords: Auditee-auditor relationship, Expert knowledge, Independence, Social capital

JEL Classification: M42, L84

Suggested Citation:

Daoust, Laurence and Malsch, Bertrand, When the Client Is a Former Auditor: Auditees’ Expert Knowledge and Social Capital As Threats to Staff Auditors’ Operational Independence (November 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3486941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3486941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
M Alvesson
Knowledge work: Ambiguity, image and identity
Human Relations , volume 54 , issue 7 , p. 863 - 86 Posted: 2001
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Work hard, play hard": An analysis of organizational cliché in two accountancy practices
Organization , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 565 - 92 Posted: 1998
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Professionals, networking and the networked professional
Research in the Sociology of Organizations , volume 24 , p. 231 - 56 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue S1 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,057
RANK
439,313
3 Citations
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies