Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Risk of Insolvency and the Audit Report

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, 40-52, 2019

13 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2019

Anna Ros

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Barcelona School of Management

Alba Ruiz

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Barcelona School of Management

Carles Rusiñol

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Barcelona School of Management

Alexandre Valeriano

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Barcelona School of Management

Date Written: November 13, 2019

Abstract

When auditors detect that a company might have problems of insolvency, they have to inform about it with an emphasis paragraph where it is questioned whether it is appropriate to apply “the going concern principle”. This work analyses if auditors are effective in assessing the risk of insolvency and compares it with the Z score formula which applies the discriminant analysis to generate forecasts.

Keywords: Auditing, Insolvency, Z score, Ratios

Suggested Citation:

Ros, Anna and Ruiz, Alba and Rusiñol, Carles and Valeriano, Alexandre, The Risk of Insolvency and the Audit Report (November 13, 2019). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, 40-52, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3486122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
RANK
528,080
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies