Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Actions and the Deterrence of Manager Opportunism: The Importance of Communication to the Board and Consistency with Peer Behavior

Posted: 5 Dec 2019

Jessica Buchanan

Providence College

Benjamin P. Commerford

University of Kentucky, Gatton

Elaine Wang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: November 20, 2019

Abstract

Informed by Perceptual Deterrence Theory, we conduct multiple experiments to investigate when and how auditor actions can help deter manager opportunism. In Study 1, we conduct two experiments in which managers can use real earnings management (REM) to report more favorable earnings. Study 1A results indicate that REM can be deterred when managers expect auditors to increase scrutiny and communicate their observations with the board. However, this effect occurs only when managers’ operational decisions are inconsistent (as opposed to consistent) with peer behavior. Study 1B results suggest that without communication to the board, auditor scrutiny is not likely to deter REM, irrespective of consistency with peers. In Study 2, we conduct an experiment in which managers can choose to use either accruals-based earnings management (AEM) or REM that is inconsistent with peer behavior to report more favorable earnings. We find that increased auditor scrutiny with communication to the board effectively deters both AEM and REM, reducing the total level of manager opportunism. However, auditor scrutiny alone (i.e., without communication to the board) deters AEM, but also induces more REM, leaving the total level of manager opportunism unchanged. Our findings highlight the importance of auditor-board communication and demonstrate when and how auditor actions can contribute to the deterrence of both AEM and REM.

Keywords: Auditor scrutiny, auditor-board communication, consistency with peer behavior, perceptual deterrence theory, manager opportunism, real earnings management, accruals-based earnings management

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Buchanan, Jessica and Commerford, Benjamin P. and Wang, Elaine (Ying), Auditor Actions and the Deterrence of Manager Opportunism: The Importance of Communication to the Board and Consistency with Peer Behavior (November 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3490659
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies