Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management of Listed Oil Marketing Companies in Nigeria

Tyokoso, G. M., Sabari, M. H., Dogarawa, A. B. & Ibrahim, H., Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management of Listed Oil Marketing Companies in Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Accounting Research, A Publication of Department of Accounting, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 12(1): 65-96, 2016

36 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2019

Gabriel M. Tyokoso

Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi - Department of Accounting and Finance

Mohammed H. Sabari

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department Of Accounting

Ahmad Bello Dogarawa

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) - Department of Accounting

Hassan Ibrahim

Nasarawa State University - Department of Accounting (Keffi)

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of audit quality attributes on earnings management of listed oil marketing companies in Nigeria. Secondary data were extracted from nine companies listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) from 2009 to 2014 and analyzed using panel multiple regression technique. The result of Hausman specification test suggests that the fixed effect regression model is most appropriate for the dataset. The result of the fixed effect regression model showed that audit firm size, auditor industry specialization, client importance and audit committee financial expertise are positively associated with earnings management of the firms at 1%, 5%, 1% and 5% level of significance respectively. In contrast, auditor tenure and the interaction between audit committee financial expertise and auditor industry specialization were negatively and significantly associated with earnings management of the firms at 5% level of significance respectively. The paper therefore concludes that audit quality has significant effect on earnings management of listed oil marketing companies in Nigeria. In line with the findings, the paper recommends among others that public companies who hire the services of audit firms in Nigeria should judge audit firms on the basis of performance in prior assignments and not just the size of the audit firm in view of the fact that audit firm size is not associated with less earnings management of Nigerian firms. Also, regulatory authorities such as SEC should come out with a policy that will encourage audit firms in Nigeria to specialize along industry lines of companies listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to enable effective audit service. Regulatory bodies such as SEC and Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN) should also come out with a policy that makes it mandatory for Nigerian companies to publish both audit and non-audit fees paid to their auditors. The disclosure of both fees will enable users of audited financial statements in Nigeria to determine the level of auditor client importance and consequently, the reliance to place on the auditor’s report.


Keywords: Audit Quality, Earnings Management, Auditor Industry Specialization, Client Importance, Audit Committee Financial Expertise

Suggested Citation:

Tyokoso, Gabriel M. and Sabari, Mohammed H. and Dogarawa, Ahmad Bello and Ibrahim, Hassan, Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management of Listed Oil Marketing Companies in Nigeria (2016). Tyokoso, G. M., Sabari, M. H., Dogarawa, A. B. & Ibrahim, H., Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management of Listed Oil Marketing Companies in Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Accounting Research, A Publication of Department of Accounting, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 12(1): 65-96, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3492016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3492016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Y Ahmadzade , R B Hassanzadeh , N Pooryegane , H Ebrahimi
The study of audit firm tenure and industry specialization influence on earnings management (emphasizing on interim financial reports) evidenced from Iran
Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences , volume 6 , issue 13 , p. 267 - 273 Posted: 2012
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud and corporate executives: agency theory, stewardship and broken trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 5 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
M M Alhadab
Real and accrual earnings management, regulatory environments, audit quality and IPO failure risk. Unpublished Ph Posted: 2012
M D Aliyu , A U Musa , P Zachariah
Impact of audit quality on earnings management of listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria
Journal of Accounting and Finance Management , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
764
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,426
RANK
75,597
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies