Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenging Global Group Audits: The Perspective of U.S. Group Audit Leads

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Dec 2019 Last revised: 16 Jul 2020

Denise Downey

Villanova University

Kim Westermann

Cal Poly San Luis Obispo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 24, 2020

Abstract

Regulators are concerned about the quality of group audits due to poor inspection results, recent enforcement actions against component auditors, and the significance of these audits to the global economy (IAASB 2015; PCAOB 2016a). In response, we survey and interview U.S.-based global group audit leads to better understand the group audit process and their perceptions of challenges that arise on such engagements. Our findings indicate that group auditors organize their audits consistent with the client’s structure, which drives component auditor selection, scoping, and fees. Group auditors routinely find fault with component auditors, perceiving that work performed and/or documentation provided is not sufficient, not appropriate and/or not communicated timely, to comply with U.S. standards and reporting deadlines. In some cases, they perceive that the component auditor is unable and/or unwilling to comply; in others, that the component auditor is willing and able, but misunderstands group instructions due to language proficiency or differing interpretation of the standards. Notably this perspective is ethnocentric, as group auditors almost exclusively attribute issues to component auditors. While ethnocentric tendencies appear myopic, they provide insight into unrecognized or overlooked aspects of the global firm model of cooperative arrangements, which are largely unacknowledged in the academic literature.

Keywords: Group Audits; Group and Component Auditors; Multinational Company Reporting; Qualitative

Suggested Citation:

Downey, Denise and Westermann, Kimberly, Challenging Global Group Audits: The Perspective of U.S. Group Audit Leads (June 24, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3493748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3493748
 Not Available for Download
0 References
6 Citations
Kenneth L. Bills , Christie Hayne , Sarah E. Stein
Collaborating with Competitors: How Do Small Firm Accounting Associations and Networks Successfully Manage Coopetitive Tensions?
Contemporary Accounting Research, 38 (1): 545-579, 2021 · Posted: 21 May 2020 · Last revised: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lindsay M. Andiola , Joseph F. Brazel , Denise Downey , Tammie Rech Schaefer
Coaching Today’s Auditors: What Causes Reviewers to Adopt a More Developmental Approach
Andiola, L.A., Brazel, J. F., Downey, D. H., and Schaefer, T.J. 2024. Coaching today's auditors: What causes reviewers to adopt a more developmental approach? Accounting, Organizations and Society 112: 101548 · 49 Pages · Posted: 23 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 27 May 2024 · Downloads: 287
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jenna Burke , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
The use and characteristics of foreign component auditors in U.S. multinational audits: Insights from Form AP disclosures
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 59 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 461
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William Docimo , Joshua L. Gunn , Chan Li , Paul N. Michas
Do Foreign Component Auditors Harm Financial Reporting Quality? A Subsidiary-Level Analysis of Foreign Component Auditor Use
Contemporary Accounting Research, Conditionally Accepted · 54 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2020 · Last revised: 6 May 2021 · Downloads: 384
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies