Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning in the Auditing Profession: A Framework and Future Directions

64 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2019 Last revised: 30 Nov 2023

Bart Dierynck

Tilburg University

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Date Written: November 22, 2023

Abstract

Drawing on literature in auditing and workplace learning, this paper develops the Auditor Learning Framework. The Auditor Learning Framework distinguishes auditor learning processes along two dimensions: the location of learning (on-the-engagement or off-the-engagement) and the role of the others in the learning process (active or passive). We review the auditing literature and classify papers that directly or indirectly enhance our knowledge of auditor workplace learning into our framework to identify gaps in our understanding of the auditor learning processes. Our study provides a comprehensive view of auditor learning processes and provides suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Auditing, workplace learning, expertise development, cognition, auditor expertise

JEL Classification: M42, M53, D83

Suggested Citation:

Dierynck, Bart and Kadous, Kathryn and Peters, Christian P. H., Learning in the Auditing Profession: A Framework and Future Directions (November 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
184 References
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
T D Allen , K M Shockley , L Poteat
Protégé anxiety attachment and feedback in mentoring relationships
Journal of Vocational Behavior , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 80 Posted: 2010
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
916
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,553
RANK
59,129
6 Citations
184 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies