Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Should Be Included in Auditor’s Report? A Review

Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Posted: 6 Dec 2019

Sandhya Jayasena

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka

Roshan Ajward

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: December 3, 2019

Abstract

Certain contemporary national and international incidents highlight that some auditors are causing the profession distress and creating an ‘audit expectation-performance gap’- AEG, which is the difference between what the public expects from the auditing profession and what the profession actually provides. On the other hand, an audit report could be considered to address the information needs of users, while aiming to enhance the relevance of the audit and is clearly in the interest of users, and thus expected to lower the AEG. However, extant literature indicated one of the main causes of AEG is also considered to be inadequate audit reporting. Thus, this study aims to identify the information content of the external auditor’s report by reviewing comprehensively the relevant extant literature on the expectations of stakeholders of such audit reports. Accordingly, based on a comprehensive literature survey performed, the expected information content of auditor report was identified as: the auditor’s opinion, fundamental information (i.e., title, addressee, etc.), nature and the process of audit in detail, responsibilities of auditors and management, detailed auditors’ findings, ethical responsibilities of the auditor including auditor’s independence, the level of assurance provided, the level of materiality considered in the audit, material and significant issues encountered in performing the audit including matters of emphasis, information on going concern, observations of the auditor on key performance indicators, financial position and other information in the annual report, detailed information of the auditor and the auditee, and information about component auditors (if applicable). While theoretically contributing to an expanded model on audit reporting, these findings also are expected to assist policymakers including regulators in the audit profession in deciding the content and form of the audit report and other related communications.

Keywords: audit expectation gap, audit report, external audit, information content

Suggested Citation:

Jayasena, Sandhya and Ajward, Roshan, What Should Be Included in Auditor’s Report? A Review (December 3, 2019). Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA) 2019 | Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies