Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Outcome Effect and Professional Skepticism: A Replication and a Failed Attempt at Mitigation

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Volume 31 (2): 135-143, Fall 2019

Posted: 19 Dec 2019

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

In this research note, we replicate Brazel, Jackson, Schaefer, and Stewart’s (2016) study of how auditors evaluate skeptical behavior. Like the original study, we find that evaluators reward audit staff who exercise appropriate levels of skepticism and identify a misstatement (positive outcome). However, when no misstatement is identified (negative outcome), evaluators penalize staff who exercise appropriate levels of skepticism. One factor causing this outcome effect may be that exercising skepticism typically causes budget overages due to additional testing. Hence, we examine whether formally attributing the budget overage to skeptical judgments and actions in the audit budget file reduces outcome effects. However, while replicating the initial effect across three separate studies, we have been unable to reduce this effect. Thus, it is clear that the outcome effect in this context is very robust.

Keywords: audit, budget, evaluation, outcome effect, professional skepticism, replication

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Gimbar, Christine and Maksymov, Eldar M. and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, The Outcome Effect and Professional Skepticism: A Replication and a Failed Attempt at Mitigation (December 2, 2019). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Volume 31 (2): 135-143, Fall 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497020
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
775
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies