Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the GiPlot Online Interactive Tool to Explore Business and Financial Data in the Context of the Ex Post Component of the Audit

Airinei, D., Homocianu, D. (2019), Using the GiPlot Online Interactive Tool to Explore Business and Financial Data in the Context of the Ex Post Component of the Audit, Financial Audit / Audit Financiar, vol. XVII, no. 4(156)/2019, pp. 628-641, DOI: 10.20869/AUDITF/2019/156/023

25 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2019

Dinu Airinei

Alexandru Ioan Cuza University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Daniel Homocianu

Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, “Alexandru Ioan Cuza” University

Date Written: September 14, 2019

Abstract

In the context of dealing with an increasing volume of business, financial and audit data, this paper presents some advantages of using an interactive cloud computing-based tool, namely GiPlot, developed using Google technology, available for free use and originally meant for representing and visually exploring general purpose data. The tool itself is a sort of visual interactive simulation (VIS) application which belongs to the broader category of prescriptive Business Intelligence. It relies on online environments and data sources (e.g. Google Drive, Google Sheets) and also on the idea of collaboration, transparency and support for replication of results. The usage scenarios presented in the paper include time series and correlation diagrams, in the context of the overall objective of the paper, namely to justify the possibilities of using the GiPlot tool for economic and financial data, especially when the ex post component of the audit is concerned.

Keywords: ex post audit, exploring business and financial data; GiPlot; usage scenarios and advantages

JEL Classification: C32, C88, Y10

Suggested Citation:

Airinei, Dinu and Homocianu, Daniel, Using the GiPlot Online Interactive Tool to Explore Business and Financial Data in the Context of the Ex Post Component of the Audit (September 14, 2019). Airinei, D., Homocianu, D. (2019), Using the GiPlot Online Interactive Tool to Explore Business and Financial Data in the Context of the Ex Post Component of the Audit, Financial Audit / Audit Financiar, vol. XVII, no. 4(156)/2019, pp. 628-641, DOI: 10.20869/AUDITF/2019/156/023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3498798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
*** , Ghidul
Norme metodologice generale pentru organizarea şi funcţionarea auditului intern Posted: 2016
Crossref
L Badea
Impactul crizei financiare asupra pieței de capital din România în context european, Economie teoretică şi aplicată
Volumul XIX , issue 3 , p. 26 - 39 Posted: 2012
M L Bertoneche
Spectral analysis of stock market prices
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 208 Posted: 1979
Crossref
A C Harvey
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series D (The Statistician) , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1975-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies