Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Ambiguity on Loss Contingency Evaluation by Auditors and Investors

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2019

Ning Du

DePaul University - School of Accountancy and MIS

Mary Mindak

DePaul University

Ray Whittington

affiliation not provided to SSRN

John E. McEnroe

DePaul University

Date Written: December 6, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this study is to provide additional evidence regarding the effect of ambiguity on auditors’ and investors’ judgments when they evaluate managers’ disclosures about loss contingencies. Inspired by Nelson and Kinney (1997), we conducted an experiment where auditors and investors evaluate managements’ loss disclosures. We manipulate the probability of loss at three levels and the uncertainty about the ambiguity at two levels. Our results show that both auditors and investors appear to be aggressive towards financial reporting choices, and are less willing to recommend a loss contingency disclosure when there is ambiguity. Our results extend prior accounting literature and highlight the importance of understanding imprecise estimates in financial reporting. We found that auditors and investors reacted very similarly towards ambiguity in loss disclosures. This result may reflect a narrowing of the expectations gap around reporting accounting estimates and highlight the potential improvements in users’ confidence in accountants.

Keywords: Expectation Gap, Contingency Loss, Disclosure, Auditor, Financial Statement User, Ambiguity, Probability, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Du, Ning and Mindak, Mary and Whittington, Ray and McEnroe, John E., The Effects of Ambiguity on Loss Contingency Evaluation by Auditors and Investors (December 6, 2019). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3499368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3499368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J Aharony , A Dotan
A comparative analysis of auditor, manager and financial analyst interpretations of SFAS 5 disclosure guidelines
Finance and Accounting , volume 31 , issue 3-4 , p. 475 - 504 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Amer , K Hackenbrack , M Nelson
Between-auditor differences in the interpretation of probability phrases
Auditing , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 1994
T Amer , K Hackenbrack , M Nelson
Context-dependence of auditors' interpretations of the SFAS No. 5 Probability Expressions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 1995
Crossref
C Camerer , M Weber
Recent developments in modeling preferences: uncertainty and ambiguity
Journal of Risk and Uncertainty , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 325 - 370 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ning Du , Mary Mindak , Ray Whittington , John E. McEnroe
The Effects of Ambiguity on Loss Contingency Evaluation by Auditors and Investors
Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming · 30 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 169
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lisa L. Koonce , Cassie Mongold , Laura Quaid , Brian J. White
Experimental Research on Standard-Setting Issues in Financial Reporting
73 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 15 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
405,369
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies