Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Landscape of Auditor Liability

Journal of Law and Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Dec 2019

Colleen Honigsberg

Stanford Law School

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

Date Written: December 7, 2019

Abstract

We provide an overview of shareholder litigation against auditors since the PSLRA. The number of lawsuits per year has declined, dismissals have increased, and settlements in recent years have declined. Our study asks why. Because we find that the likelihood an auditor is sued following a restatement has declined in recent years, it does not appear that the decline can be attributed solely to increases in audit quality. Instead, we consider whether the Supreme Court cases limiting the scope of Rule 10b-5 against private actors may have led to the decline. To study this possibility, we focus on the Supreme Court’s 2007 and 2011 rulings in Tellabs v. Makor and Janus v. First Derivative, respectively. Our analysis provides strong evidence that the higher liability standards imposed by Janus significantly reduced auditors’ liability exposure, but we find only limited evidence that the pleading standards imposed by Tellabs had a significant effect.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Tellabs, Rule 10b-5, Section 11, Audit Quality, Janus, PSLRA

JEL Classification: K22, K41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Honigsberg, Colleen and Rajgopal, Shivaram and Srinivasan, Suraj, The Changing Landscape of Auditor Liability (December 7, 2019). Journal of Law and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3500281
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies