Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Practice into Accounting Research

Management Science, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Dec 2019

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 7, 2019

Abstract

I argue that academic research in accounting has strayed from producing work that is useful to either practitioners or policy makers. I use three criteria to arrive at that assessment: (i) how many products and processes has accounting research produced in the last 50 years? (ii) how much overlap do we observe between issues that CFOs and CEOs worry about and our published research; and (iii) is the science or the knowhow in academe in a particular area ahead of that in practice? I conjecture that tuition-funded research drives this problem. I review several initiatives that have been tried at Columbia and elsewhere (i) to better integrate academic research and practice; and (ii) to disseminate our findings to practitioners. I suggest that Management Science set up a forum to encourage submissions of papers that use rigorous methods to address pressing applied problems.

Keywords: Research Relevance, Tuition, Dean, Teaching, Research Dissemination, Research Translation, Knowledge Transfer, Practitioner, Research Impact, PhD Programs

JEL Classification: A11, A23, G00, M10, M4

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram, Integrating Practice into Accounting Research (December 7, 2019). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3500286
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies