Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Matter of Perspective: Mitigating the Outcome Effect in Auditor Performance Evaluations

49 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020 Last revised: 25 Feb 2021

J. Owen Brown

Baylor University

Melanie Millar

Baylor University

Date Written: December 29, 2020

Abstract

Prior research shows that the outcome effect in auditor performance evaluations can create a disincentive to exercise professional skepticism by punishing auditors whose skeptical behavior does not identify a misstatement. We experimentally demonstrate that perspective taking improves this evaluation process by mitigating the influence of the outcome effect and increasing evaluator focus on decision process quality. In a common audit setting in which a staff auditor exhibits appropriate yet costly skeptical behavior that correctly identifies no misstatement, supervising auditors prompted to take the perspective of the staff auditor evaluate the staff’s performance more highly than unprompted auditors—performance ratings that align with the ratings provided to auditors who detect a misstatement. We provide confirming evidence that perspective taking successfully removes the outcome penalty for no-misstatement skeptical behavior by increasing supervisor attention toward information cues about the staff’s decision process quality and away from those about the non-diagnostic misstatement outcome. We also show that perspective taking increases evaluator consensus and reduces the “idiosyncratic rater effects” that often plague performance reviews. Overall, we demonstrate that perspective taking can improve attention to process quality and that audit firms can use perspective taking to help properly align reward structures with desired auditor behavior.

Keywords: Perspective taking, outcome effect, outcome bias, professional skepticism, decision quality, performance evaluation, audit

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Owen and Millar, Melanie, A Matter of Perspective: Mitigating the Outcome Effect in Auditor Performance Evaluations (December 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3502394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3502394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
E C Altiero , Y J Kang , M E Peecher
Motivated perspective taking: Why auditors asked to take an investor's perspective assess negative audit adjustments as less material. Working paper Posted: 2019
L M Andiola
Performance feedback in the audit environment: A review and synthesis of research on the behavioral effects
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Crossref
L M Andiola , J C Bedard
Delivering the "tough message": Moderators of subordinate auditors' reactions to feedback. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 70 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2018
Crossref
L M Andiola , J C Bedard , K D Westermann
It's not my fault! Insights into subordinate auditors' attributions and emotions following audit review
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Sanaz Aghazadeh , Owen Brown , Laura Guichard Latiolais , Kris Hoang
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 88 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Erin M Hawkins , Andrew H. Newman , Jesse C. Robertson , Chad M. Stefaniak , Jeremy Vinson
The Effects of Eliminating Time Entry on Auditors' Perceptions of Practice and Outcomes
57 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,790
RANK
223,632
2 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies