Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a Completion Goal Impede Auditors’ Identification of Fraud Risk? The Benefit of a Refuse to Accept Goal and Influence of Professional Identity

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper

45 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2020

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Sarah E. Bonner

University of Southern California

Date Written: December 12, 2019

Abstract

Auditors’ fraud detection is critical – undetected frauds impose costs on users and auditors. We propose auditors’ fraud risk identification during end-of-audit analytical procedures is affected by working under a completion (“just get it done”) goal versus a “refuse to accept” goal (with a desired conclusion that fraud risks remain). In an experiment, a refuse to accept goal positively affects auditors’ belief task performance is important, prompting integrative processing, then a higher likelihood of identifying a fraud risk. While the refuse to accept goal increases this belief for low professional identity auditors, it does not lead to identifying the specific risk, only raising concerns with their superior. High identity auditors are more likely to identify the specific risk under the goal, but, consistent with experiencing a self-concept threat, do not show increased belief performance is important and are less inclined to raise concerns. Findings have implications for research and practice.

Keywords: Goals, fraud, end-of-audit analytical procedures, audit quality, professional identity, self-concept threat

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, D80, D91

Suggested Citation:

Majors, Tracie McDonald and Bonner, Sarah E., Does a Completion Goal Impede Auditors’ Identification of Fraud Risk? The Benefit of a Refuse to Accept Goal and Influence of Professional Identity (December 12, 2019). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3502992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3502992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
H Aarts , P Gollwitzer , R Hassin
Goal Contagion: Perceiving is for Pursuing
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 87 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 2004
Crossref
AU Section 329: Analytical Procedures Posted: 1989
Aicpa
Audit Guide: Analytical Procedures Posted: 2012
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial Reporting Fraud and other Forms of Misconduct: A Multidisciplinary Review of the Literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
RANK
405,369
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies