Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of a Supportive Learning Culture and Rank on Professional Skepticism in Information Search

Posted: 7 Jan 2020

Therese Grohnert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wim Gijselaers

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Roger Meuwissen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ken Trotman

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: December 16, 2019

Abstract

Auditors are required to apply professional skepticism throughout the audit process: when searching for information, when forming a judgment, and when deciding on which actions to take. Consequently, audit firms have a vested interest in fostering professional skepticism. Extant conceptual models propose that knowledge is a central driver of professional skepticism, yet a common measure of knowledge - experience - has proven to be an unreliable proxy: it does not take into account that auditors have to learn from experience to develop knowledge. Insights from psychology and management studies emphasize that this learning does not occur automatically, but that it can be fostered at the firm level through a supportive learning culture. Based on these streams of research, the present study explores whether a firm’s learning culture interacts with experience to foster professional skepticism. We observed information search behaviors and recorded intentions to act of 166 auditors across ranks using a representative audit task. Our results show that higher-ranking auditors benefit from working in a more supportive learning culture: they engaged in significantly more skeptical information search and in turn formulated more skeptical intentions to act. A supportive learning culture is therefore essential for enabling the ongoing development of knowledge and exercising professional skepticism, especially at the ranks of manager and partner.

Keywords: professional skepticism, information search, judgment, rank, learning culture

JEL Classification: M42, D83

Suggested Citation:

Grohnert, Therese and Gijselaers, Wim and Meuwissen, Roger and Trotman, Ken, The Effects of a Supportive Learning Culture and Rank on Professional Skepticism in Information Search (December 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504535
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,057
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies