Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transnational Auditors, Local Workplaces, and the Law

TLI Think! Paper 20/2019

Tilburg Law School Research Paper

27 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2019

Phillip Paiement

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: December 17, 2019

Abstract

Auditors of global supply chains play an influential role in determining what it means for manufacturing facilities to comply with both transnational standards as well as national and international labor laws. They exercise this role at the interface between the local context of laborers in a workplace governed by local and national laws, and the transnational context of private standards intended to govern global supply chains. This article utilizes the concept of translocal legality to explore how auditors develop and deploy their authority and technical expertise to interpret questions about compliance with legal and private norms in global supply chains. It illustrates how auditors transform what it means to be compliant with legal requirements, and in doing so creates a distinction between acceptable and unacceptable types of risk to workers’ safety in the context of economic globalization.

Keywords: auditing, labor law, translocal legality, garment manufacturing, global value chains

Suggested Citation:

Paiement, Phillip, Transnational Auditors, Local Workplaces, and the Law (December 17, 2019). TLI Think! Paper 20/2019, Tilburg Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3505584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3505584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Pg
Complaint to the Italian NCP. xxvii Unfortunately, only limited information about the investigation (case number 1003/16/45) is publicly available. See ECCHR
Complaint to the Italian NCP. xxvi Pg , volume 14 , p. 23 - 27 Posted: 2016
It appears that the ECCHR has enlisted the assistance of the London-based Forensic Architecture Project to develop simulations and visualizations of the factory as part of the evidence in the case. See Forensic Architecture
Outsourcing Risk: Investigating the Ali Enterprises Factory Fire on 11 Posted: 2012-09
Ecchr
Kik: Paying the price for clothing production in South Asia
José E Alvarez
Are Corporations 'Subjects' of International Law?
Santa Clara Journal of International Law , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
122,812
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: International & Comparative Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies