Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Audit Quality on Earnings Management among Listed Oil and Gas Companies in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic and Applied Research, ISSN: 2643-9603 Vol.3 Issue 11, November – 2019, Pages: 52-61

10 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2020

Bashir Babatunde Alao

Librod Energy Services Limited

Oladejo Lukman Gbolagade

Federal University Dutsin‐Ma

Date Written: November 22, 2019

Abstract

The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of audit quality on earnings management practices among oil and gas companies listed in the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) for period of 5 years (2014-2018). The focus of the research is on oil and gas companies due to recent allegations of large scale financial misrepresentations associated with the Nigerian oil sector. Similarly, over the past decades, the global markets have witnessed several accounting scandals mainly because of the manipulation of the accounting figures reported in the financial statements. To achieve the objectives of this study, the corporate annual reports of twelve (12) listed oil and gas companies for the period under consideration were used for the study. In testing the research hypotheses, the study adopted the use of both descriptive statistics and Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression analysis is used to explore the relationship between Audit quality proxies which are Audit firm size, auditor industry specialization and auditor independence and Earnings management in listed companies. The management of earnings is measured using Discretionary Accruals (a modified Jones model) while Eviews 8.1as the tool of data analysis of OLS regression. The results suggest that there is a relationship between audit quality and earnings manipulation; auditors’ independence has a significant positive relationship with earnings management, while the rest of the hypotheses indicate that the other variables remain to have an insignificant relationship with earnings management.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Earnings Management, Listed Oil and Gas Companies

Suggested Citation:

Alao, Bashir Babatunde and Gbolagade, Oladejo Lukman, The Influence of Audit Quality on Earnings Management among Listed Oil and Gas Companies in Nigeria (November 22, 2019). International Journal of Academic and Applied Research, ISSN: 2643-9603 Vol.3 Issue 11, November – 2019, Pages: 52-61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3506014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A Meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P A Alleyne , D Davonish , P Alleyne
Perceptions of Auditor Independence in Barbados Managerial Audit , volume 21 , p. 621 - 635 Posted: 2006
Ana Paula
Audit Quality and Earnings Management: Evidence from Portugal
Athens Journal of Business & Economics Posted: 2018
Augustine O Okolie
Auditor Tenure, Auditor Independence and Accrual-Based Earnings Management of Quoted Companies in Nigeria
European Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance ResearchVol , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 90 Posted: 2014-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,929
RANK
127,222
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies