Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Auditors Become Over-Conservative? Evidence From the Investors’ Perception of Auditor Changes

62 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2020

Ulf Mohrmann

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: December 19, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates whether investors perceive high levels of auditor conservatism as excessive. Auditors can reduce their litigation risk by issuing going concern opinions to firms with relatively low default risk. However, this strategy is costly for investors. Investors cannot observe the estimated probability of default but can only estimate the average threshold at which the audit office started to issue going concern opinions in the past. If they perceive the office’s threshold as too low, they should discount the firm’s market value because going concern opinions negatively affect the future cash flows. As the valuation should rebound if a firm replaces such an over-conservative auditor, I investigate the market reaction to auditor changes. I introduce a novel measure of auditor conservatism that is closely related to the audit offices’ going concern thresholds. Using a sample of 1,687 auditor changes from 2004 to 2014, I document a positive abnormal return if firms replace the most conservative auditors. However, additional analyses reveal that investors only perceive the most conservative non-Big 4 audit offices in the period after the financial crisis as over-conservative. That is, in the post-crisis period the non-Big 4 auditors increased their level of conservatism to levels that investors perceive as excessive.

Keywords: Auditor Conservatism, Auditor Changes, Audit Quality, Market Valuation, Event Study

JEL Classification: M42, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mohrmann, Ulf, Can Auditors Become Over-Conservative? Evidence From the Investors’ Perception of Auditor Changes (December 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3507334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3507334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J C Coffee
Why do auditors fail? What might work?
What won't? Accounting and Business Research , volume 49 , p. 540 - 561 Posted: 2019
Crossref
E B Davis , R H Ashton
Threshold adjustment in response to asymmetric loss functions: The case of auditors' "substantial doubt" thresholds. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 89 , p. 1082 - 1099 Posted: 2002
M Defond , C Lennox , J Zhang
Some controversies in the auditing literature Posted: 2016
M Defond , K Raghunandan , K R Subramanyam
Do non-audit service fees impair auditor independence? Evidence from going concern audit opinions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1247 - 1274 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,324
RANK
545,548
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies