Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors' Perception and Audit Expectation-Performance Gap (AEG) in the Context of Listed Firms in Sri Lanka

CA Journal of Applied Research, 2019, vol. 3, pp. 1-27.

27 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2020

Sandhya Jayasena

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka

Roshan Ajward

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Hareendra Dissabandara

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: December 25, 2019

Abstract

Corporate failures around the globe in recent times have placed the auditing profession in the spotlight. The profession is beset by confusion and crises caused by the differences in the beliefs held by auditors and the public concerning the auditor’s duties, which have even led to lawsuits against auditors. This situation is the result of what is known as the ‘Audit Expectation–Performance Gap’ (AEG). In the light of the contemporary importance of the subject, lack of theoretical underpinnings of the causes of AEG and the dearth of studies on it in Sri Lanka, the present study attempts to ascertain the status of AEG and to examine the factors contributing to AEG, in the Sri Lankan context. A positivist approach was adopted and a structured questionnaire survey done involving professional auditors and investors of listed firms. The results of independent sample t-test indicated a statistically significant difference between the perceptions of professional auditors and investors regarding the duties of auditors in the context of listed firms in Sri Lanka. The relative contribution to the overall AEG was that much of the gap (50 per cent) in AEG was attributable to deficient standards, 16 per cent to unreasonable expectations of society about auditors’ duties, and 34 per cent was due to the perceived sub-standard performance of auditors. On the other hand, in terms of the contributory factors, the mean ranking with one sample t-test results found that 12 factors contributed significantly to AEG. The main contributory factors highlighted by respondents were the lack of auditing education and lack of auditing experience among users. Thus, as regards policy implications, it was noted that policymakers and regulators need to increase community awareness through audit education to reduce AEG in Sri Lanka as one of the main measures.

Keywords: Audit Education, Audit Expectations Gap, Duties of Auditors, Factors, Institutional Theory, Porter Model (1993)

Suggested Citation:

Jayasena, Sandhya and Ajward, Roshan and Dissabandara, Hareendra, Investors' Perception and Audit Expectation-Performance Gap (AEG) in the Context of Listed Firms in Sri Lanka (December 25, 2019). CA Journal of Applied Research, 2019, vol. 3, pp. 1-27., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3509438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3509438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
N Abayadeera
An empirical study of the audit expectation-performance gap in Sri Lanka
Proceedings of International Conference on Business Management , volume 2 , p. 465 - 469 Posted: 2005
A Adeniji
Auditing and investigation Posted: 2004
Diagnostic study of accounting and auditing practices in Sri Lanka Posted: 2002
O Bik , J Wijnmaalen
A true and fair value of the audit sector
Foundation for Auditing Research , volume 9 , issue 10 , p. 256 - 323 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
254,521
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies