Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee and Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka

Balagobei, S. (2017). Audit Committee and Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka. Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting, 9(2), 387-398.

12 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Saseela Balagobei

University of Jaffna

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

The audit committee (AC) is the potential mechanism that reduces the agency problems in organizations and investigating this mechanism separate from alternate corporate governance mechanisms may have led to different results in the literature. The aim of this study is to examine the impact of audit committee on value relevance of accounting information of listed hotels and travels in Sri Lanka. Value relevance of accounting information is measured by earning per share (EPS) and book value per share (BVPS) while Audit committee consists of AC size, AC independence, AC experts and AC meetings. The sample consists of 15 hotels and travels listed in Colombo Stock Exchange. In this study, data was collected from secondary sources and hypotheses are examined by using Pearson’s correlation and regression analysis. The results reveal that audit committee attributes such as AC size, AC experts and AC meetings have a significant impact on book value per share of listed hotels and travels in Sri Lanka. Further only AC experts influence earnings per share. AC independence is not found to have a significant impact on the value relevance of accounting information. The findings could be useful to regulators in other jurisdiction who are looking at ways to enhance the effectiveness of audit committee, overall firm governance.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Value Relevance of Accounting Information, Audit Committee Size, Audit Committee Experts, Audit Committee Meetings

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Balagobei, Saseela, Audit Committee and Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka (December 1, 2017). Balagobei, S. (2017). Audit Committee and Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Hotels and Travels in Sri Lanka. Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting, 9(2), 387-398. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L A Beisland
A Review of the Value Relevance Literature
The Open Business Journal , volume 2 , p. 7 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 78 Posted: 1968
Crossref
J V Carcello , T L Neal
Audit committee characteristics and auditor dismissals following "new" going-concern reports
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 117 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
S. Kasthury , Saratha Anandasayanan
Impact of Audit Committee Characteristics on Financial Performance of Companies Listed under Materials Sector in CSE
Proceedings of the International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI) 2020 · 9 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2021 · Downloads: 857
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
383,022
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies