Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

88 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2020 Last revised: 10 Dec 2020

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

J. Owen Brown

Baylor University

Laura Guichard Latiolais

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - Department of Accounting

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Date Written: December 7, 2020

Abstract

We provide a comprehensive review and synthesis of behavioral experimental literature that examines persuasion in auditing. We organize our review by applying McGuire’s (1969, 1978) five Components of Persuasive Communication: source, message, receiver, channel, and destination from his Communication-Persuasion Matrix. Our synthesis identifies two primary contexts in which persuasion attempts occur in the auditing setting: (1) auditors and clients engaging in or coping with others’ persuasive communications; (2) auditors coping with subordinates’ persuasion attempts in working papers. From our analysis, we identify a concentration of prior persuasion research on source, message, and receiver variables, and we develop 26 questions for future research to consider based on gaps we identify in the literature. Our literature review specifies and organizes key features of persuasion in auditing, enhances our understanding of how auditors and clients initiate and respond to persuasive communications, and discusses significant implications for both audit quality and financial reporting outcomes.

Keywords: Persuasion, Auditing, Judgment and Decision Making, Communication-Persuasion Matrix

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Brown, Owen and Guichard Latiolais, Laura and Hoang, Kris, Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix (December 7, 2020). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3516846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3516846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Reinstein
Are there interactive effects of subordinate and client competence on audit reviewers' judgments?
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 18 , p. 69 - 97 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang
How does audit firm emphasis on client relationship quality influence auditors' inferences about and responses to potential persuasion in client communications? Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 87 , p. 38 - 50 Posted: 2020
Crossref
S Aghazadeh , J R Joe
How management confidence influences auditors' testing. Working paper Posted: 2020
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,242
RANK
143,807
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies