Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Partner Workload Compression Affect Audit Quality?

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

58 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2020 Last revised: 4 Feb 2020

Jun Chen

Zhejiang University

Wang Dong

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Hongling Han

Zhejiang University - School of Management

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2020

Abstract

The effect of workload compression on the behavior of individual auditors has received extensive attention from regulators and scholars. We study this effect by utilizing two unique institutional features of the Chinese capital market: (1) the auditor signature requirement that reveals audit partner identities and (2) the uniform December 31 fiscal year-end that intensifies workload compression for audit partners. Calculated based on audit fees, our new measure of audit partner workload compression (APWC) is negatively related to accruals quality and the probability of modified audit opinions, while positively associated with the propensity to report small profits and the prospect of audit report delays. Nevertheless, accounting firms and client firms with audit partners facing workload compression are not more likely to receive government sanctions. These findings imply that APWC impairs audit quality but not to the extent that it would lead to egregious outcomes. Our evidence supports the PCAOB call to monitor workloads for individual auditors.

Keywords: Audit partner workload; Audit quality; Audit Opinion; Audit report delay

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jun and Dong, Wang and Han, Hongling and Zhou, Nan, Does Audit Partner Workload Compression Affect Audit Quality? (January 10, 2020). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3517667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Bart Dierynck , Christian P. H. Peters
Auditor Task Prioritization
43 Pages · Posted: 18 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 22 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 612
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Isaac Ison , Trevor Shonhiwa , Mark Hogan
Advancing Mental Health Awareness and Resilience in Accounting Students
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 21(3): 389-398 (2020) · 10 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 684
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
185,789
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies