Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Individual Auditors and Analyst Forecast Performance

63 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2020

Junxiong Fang

Fudan University - School of Management

Shuqing Luo

University of Hong Kong

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: January 19, 2020

Abstract

We examine the importance of analysts covering firms with common audit partners to analyst earnings forecast performance (hereafter, we term the analyst, auditor, and the firm as being “common”). We find that analysts issue more accurate and less optimistically biased earnings forecasts for firms with common audit partners than other analysts following the same firm without common audit partners. Consistent with expectations, we identify auditors’ style in making audit judgments as the channel through which analysts accumulate better information from covering firms with common audit partners. In a series of cross-sectional analyses, we find that this result is stronger when: (1) analysts suffer from poor direct access to firm-specific information from managers; (2) the information value from common auditors is higher, evident in their clients having more opaque operations, more difficult-to-forecast earnings, and greater stock price synchronicity; and (3) the quality of information that analysts elicit from auditors is higher, evident in auditors belonging to a large audit firm. Our results are robust to different approaches for addressing the potential endogeneity of analysts’ coverage decisions.

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Junxiong and Luo, Shuqing and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Common Individual Auditors and Analyst Forecast Performance (January 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
***
***
Crossref
*** , * , * , *
Crossref
Intercept (β0)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
173,028
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies