Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Auditors’ Engagement in Risk Management Consulting on External Auditors’ Reliance Decision

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2020

Marko Čular

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Sergeja Slapničar

University of Queensland

Tina Vuko

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Date Written: January 24, 2020

Abstract

We examine external auditors’ decisions to use the evidence or direct assistance of internal auditors when those auditors engage in consulting on enterprise risk management. Although such consulting provides value to an organization, it can also put the objectivity and independence of internal auditors at risk. We hypothesize that external auditors’ reliance on the internal audit function depends on the effectiveness of the audit committee monitoring the internal auditors’ activities. We also hypothesize that external auditors’ perception of the objectivity and independence of internal auditors mediates the reliance decision. We analyze these hypotheses using a 2x2 between-subjects design with 92 certified external auditors. Confirming the hypotheses, we find that external auditors’ reliance on the internal audit function is highest when the latter provides risk management consulting under the supervision of a strong audit committee. It is lower if the internal audit function provides only assurance (under either a weak or strong audit committee) and lowest if it provides consulting under a weak audit committee. The mediation analysis shows that the effect of audit committee effectiveness on the reliance decision is mediated by external auditors’ perception of internal auditors’ objectivity.

Keywords: internal auditor, external auditor, reliance decision, audit committee, risk management consulting

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Čular, Marko and Slapničar, Sergeja and Vuko, Tina, The Effect of Internal Auditors’ Engagement in Risk Management Consulting on External Auditors’ Reliance Decision (January 24, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3524816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3524816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal audit provided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A R Abdel-Khalik , D Snowball , J H Wragge
The effects of certain internal audit variables on the planning of external audit programs
Accounting Review , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 215 - 227 Posted: 1983
B A Adamec , L M Leinicke , J A Ostrosky , W M Rexroad
Getting a leg up: As one of the four legs of corporate governance, internal auditors have an opportunity to provide strong support to the audit committee
Internal Auditor , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 40 - 46 Posted: 2005
S S Ahlawat , D J Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity: In-house versus outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,623
RANK
207,517
6 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies