Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditing Multiple Clients Affiliated with the Same Business Group Reduce Audit Quality? Evidence from an Emerging Market

Borsa İstanbul Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Jul 2020

Murat Ocak

Trakya University, Uzunköprü School of Applied Sciences, Department of Management Information Systems

Ali Kablan

Independent

Günay Deniz Dursun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 6, 2020

Abstract

The aim of the study is to examine the association between audit quality and individual auditors providing independent audit service to the firms affiliated with the same business group. We used Turkish Listed firms traded in Borsa İstanbul between 2010 and 2016. These auditors have been associated with lower audit quality in terms of discretionary accruals, modified audit opinion and audit report aggressiveness. Our main results are robust to different specifications and the results remain unchanged regardless of the specification. Moreover, we created some interaction variables to test that such a relationship would be reversed when the audit firm where the individual auditor works, was one of the Big4. We found that individual auditors providing independent audit service to the firms affiliated with the same business group in the Big4 audit firms do not influence audit quality negatively. In addition, we found that individual auditors providing independent audit service to the firms affiliated with the same business group audit the financial statements of them in timelier manner. Overall, this paper highlights and emphasizes the importance of auditing the firms affiliated with the same business group by different individual auditors to audit quality.

Keywords: Individual auditors, group affiliated firms, Turkey, auditor-specific characteristics, Big4 audit firms, audit quality, discretionary accruals, modified audit opinion, audit reporting aggressiveness.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ocak, Murat and Kablan, Ali and Dursun, Günay Deniz, Does Auditing Multiple Clients Affiliated with the Same Business Group Reduce Audit Quality? Evidence from an Emerging Market (February 6, 2020). Borsa İstanbul Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3533420
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies