Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedents of Audit Quality in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance Quality

Sarhan, A.A., Ntim, C.G., and Al-Najjar, B., ‘Antecedents of Auditor Choice and Fees in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 35, 85-107, 2019

46 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2020

Ahmed Sarhan

Northumbria University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Basil Al‐Najjar

University of London - School of Business, Economics and Informatics

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of firm- and country-level governance quality on audit quality, as measured by (i) auditor choice and (ii) audit fees. Our findings are three-fold. First, our evidence suggests that board independence is positively related to engaging a Big 4 auditor, while family shareholdings show a negative association with hiring a Big 4 auditor. Second, board size, board independence and director shareholdings are positively related to audit fees, while government shareholdings and family shareholdings show a negative relationship with audit fees. Third, higher country-level governance quality is positively associated with hiring a Big 4 auditor and paying higher audit fees. Overall, we provide evidence that external audit quality in Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) countries is affected by firm- and country-level governance quality, which suggests that governance quality and external audit quality seem to be complements in protecting stakeholders interests through securing higher audit quality. Our results are robust to controlling for alternative measures and endogeneities.

Keywords: Firm- and Country-Level Governance Quality; Audit Quality; Auditor Choice; Audit Fees; Mena Countries.

JEL Classification: G30; G32; G34; M42

Suggested Citation:

Sarhan, Ahmed and Ntim, Collins G. and Al-Najjar, Basil, Antecedents of Audit Quality in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance Quality (2019). Sarhan, A.A., Ntim, C.G., and Al-Najjar, B., ‘Antecedents of Auditor Choice and Fees in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 35, 85-107, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3534931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Abdul Hamid , M Abdullah , A
Influence of corporate governance on audit and nonaudit fees: Malaysian evidence
Journal of Business and Policy Research , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 140 - 158 Posted: 2012
H A E Afify
Determinants of audit report lag: Does implementing corporate governance have any impact? Empirical evidence from Egypt
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 86 Posted: 2009
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mohamed Elmagrhi , Collins G. Ntim , Yan Wang , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Richard Crossely
The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions
1. Elmagrhi, M.H., Ntim, C.G., Wang, Y., Elamer, A.A., and Crossley, R.M. (2021).‘The Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics and Internal Governance Mechanisms on Voluntary Disclosures in UK Higher Education Institutions’, Journal of International Accouting, Auditing and Taxation, [In Press]., · 57 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,125
RANK
478,514
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies