Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Investors Value Key Audit Matters?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Xinning Xiao

Monash University - Department of Accounting; Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 2, 2020

Abstract

While prior studies have considered the effect of the enhanced auditor’s report (EAR) on a range of auditor, management and investors’ judgments, we consider whether the inclusion of key audit matters (KAMs) in the EAR affects investor perceptions of the value of the audit as well as the credibility of the auditor. These are important issues linked to the rationale for the introduction of the EAR. As prior studies have demonstrated that audit firm size affects investor perceptions across a range of measures, we predict that the link between KAMs (absent versus present) and investor perceptions around value and credibility is affected by audit firm size. We find that the inclusion of KAMs improves perceived value and credibility only when a Non-Big 4 firm conducts the audit. When a Big 4 firm conducts the audit, perceived value and credibility are high whether KAMs are included or not. We also find that perceived credibility mediates the joint effect of KAMs and audit firm size on the perceived value of the audit. In additional analysis, we find that the inclusion of KAMs draws investors’ attention to new and expanded messages, taking their attention away from messages considered core to the audit report.

Keywords: Key Audit Matters, Audit Firm Size, Perceived Value, Perceived Credibility

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Moroney, Robyn and Phang, Soon-Yeow and Xiao, Xinning and Xiao, Xinning, When Do Investors Value Key Audit Matters? (March 2, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3540590
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies