Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Auditor Social Responsibility and Audit Quality: Evidence from China

Posted: 10 Mar 2020 Last revised: 19 Dec 2020

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Yi Si

The School of Management, Xi'an Jiaotong University

Zi-Tian Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Chongwu Xia

School of Management, University of Science and Technology of China

Date Written: February 24, 2020

Abstract

Capitalizing on a unique setting in China where auditors disclose their prosocial activities, we examine the role that auditor social responsibility plays in shaping their performance. In one direction, behavior consistency theory implies that individual auditors exhibiting more social commitment in their off-the-job activities behave similarly during engagements, enhancing the quality of their audits. In the other direction, making social contributions may provide insurance-like protection for auditors to reduce regulatory and legal risks, lowering their incentives to provide high quality audits. In a staggered difference-in-differences design, we report a significant fall in the magnitude of companies’ discretionary accruals and the incidence of financial reporting irregularities after their auditors begin contributing to social welfare, relative to companies whose auditors refrain from contributing during the same timeframe. Additional evidence implies that the higher audit quality stems from auditors better protecting their independence and improving their competence in the post-contribution period. Collectively, our results provide insights into the importance of auditors’ prosocial attitudes to their external monitoring.

Keywords: Auditor Social Responsibility, Audit Quality, Auditor Competence, Auditor Independence

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Qi, Baolei and Si, Yi and Wang, Zi-Tian and Xia, Chongwu, Individual Auditor Social Responsibility and Audit Quality: Evidence from China (February 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543503
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,630
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies