Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspectives From Mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK on the Development of China’s Auditing Firms: Implications and a Research Agenda

Accounting and Business Research, 2020

75 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2020

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 14, 2020

Abstract

Based on gaining privileged access to interview senior representatives of audit firms, regulatory bodies, financial institutions, universities and other organizations in mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK, this exploratory study presents a range of informed views about the rapid development of China’s auditing profession over the last 25 years. It explores the emerging roles of the firms in the 2nd-tier international networks and among the larger stand-alone firms as challengers to the Big 4, nationally and internationally. It identifies national and international institutional interactions that have shaped and are being shaped by this rapid growth, with particular reference to the overarching role of the State’s shifting strategies to create a domestic profession in China that can compete internationally. The potential consequences, given China’s unequalled size and its expanding global influence, could change the nature and structure of the global profession. A significant contribution of this exploratory empirical study has been to deconstruct the continuing conventional political and academic rhetoric that dichotomizes firms into ‘foreign vs local’ and ‘Big 4 vs other’. It contributes new voices and alternative perspectives to the emerging literature on the glocalization of large professional services firms and suggests new opportunities for future auditing research.

Keywords: Chinese auditing profession, International Auditing Standards (ISA), Big 4 and 2nd-tier audit networks, international professional service firms (IPSFs), auditing research

JEL Classification: L84, M42, N25, P31, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Macve, Richard H., Perspectives From Mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK on the Development of China’s Auditing Firms: Implications and a Research Agenda (February 14, 2020). Accounting and Business Research, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3544884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
million Chinese yuan (RMB) approx. = £111,000 or US$ , volume 145 Posted: 2018-09-18
Crossref
NB to be licensed, mainland firms must, inter alia, have a Hong Kong affiliate
Source Posted: 2011-11
] and now a member of Moore Stephens International network, branded on its website as Moore Stephens Da Hua CPAs (Chinese name: 大华(马施云)国际会计师事务所 dàhuá (mǎshīyún) guójì kuàijìshī shìwùsuǒ
Moore Stephens International also has another Chinese member firm Beijing Xinghua CPAs (Chinese name: 北京兴华会计师事务所 běijīng xìnghuá kuàijìshī shìwùsuǒ) which is ranked #17
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Colin Ferguson , Matthew Pinnuck , Douglas J. Skinner
Why Did the Big 4 Get So Large? Evidence from Australia
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-13 · 67 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2014 · Last revised: 10 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 1,059
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard H. Macve
Pacioli’s Lens: A Comment
26 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 103
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lufei Ruan , Haiyan Zhang
Do Auditors Consider Alleged Bribery When Accepting Clients? Evidence From Chinese Non-State-Owned Enterprises
Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kevin C. K. Lam , Julia Junxia Liu , Rita Yip
Does Access to Developed Audit Markets Improve Home Audit Quality? Evidence from China
Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming · 60 Pages · Posted: 8 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
531,414
7 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Empirical Legal Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies