Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group Audit Risk and Component Auditor Use. A Difference-in-Difference Analysis

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2024[10.2308/AJPT-2022-027]

Posted: 24 Mar 2020 Last revised: 31 Jan 2025

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Date Written: May 13, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the association between group audit risk and component auditor use. The audit risk model defines audit risk as a function of the risk of material misstatement and detection risk. We use the revelation of an internal control material weakness (ICMW) as an event that increases the risk of material misstatement. Since higher risk of material misstatement requires the lead auditor to reduce detection risk, component auditor use could change after an ICMW. We find that the likelihood of starting component auditor use significantly increases after an ICMW. We also find an increase in the number of large component auditors used after an ICMW and that the increase is concentrated in more pervasive entity-level ICMWs and high-quality component auditors. Our evidence indicates that lead auditors perceive component auditor use to help decrease group audit risk. Our findings should inform the debate on the costs and benefits of component auditor use.




Suggested Citation:

Gunny, Katherine and Mao, Juan and Zhang, Jing, Group Audit Risk and Component Auditor Use. A Difference-in-Difference Analysis (May 13, 2020). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2024[10.2308/AJPT-2022-027], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3544391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-027
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,073
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies