Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing with Data and Analytics: External Reviewers' Judgments of Audit Quality and Effort

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2020 Last revised: 27 Jul 2023

Scott A. Emett

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Steven E. Kaplan

Arizona State University

Elaine Mauldin

University of Missouri Trulaske College of Business

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2023

Abstract

Audit firms hesitate to take full advantage of data and analytics (D&A) audit approaches because they lack certainty about how external reviewers evaluate those approaches. We propose that external reviewers use an effort heuristic when evaluating audit quality, judging less effortful audit procedures as lower quality, which could shape how external reviewers evaluate D&A audit procedures. We conduct two experiments in which experienced external reviewers evaluate one set of audit procedures (D&A or traditional) within an engagement review, while holding constant the procedures’ level of assurance. Our first experiment provides evidence that external reviewers rely on an effort heuristic when evaluating D&A audit procedures—they perceive D&A audit procedures as lower in quality than traditional audit procedures because they perceive them to be less effortful. Our second experiment confirms these results and evaluates a theory-based intervention that reduces reviewers’ reliance on the effort heuristic, causing them to judge quality similarly across D&A and traditional audit procedures.

Keywords: data and analytics, external reviewer, audit quality; effort heuristic

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Emett, Scott A. and Kaplan, Steven E. and Mauldin, Elaine and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott, Auditing with Data and Analytics: External Reviewers' Judgments of Audit Quality and Effort (July 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3544973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3544973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
R Agarwal , J Prasad
A conceptual and operational definition of personal innovativeness in the domain of information technology
Information Systems Research , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 204 - 215 Posted: 1998
N J Aicpa ; Hoboken
AICPA. 2022a. Peer Review Program
AICPA. 2022b. ASB Strategy Work Plan Posted: 2017-04-14
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , M E Peecher
The joint effects of rich data visualization and audit procedure categorization on auditor judgment Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,020
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,752
RANK
51,030
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies