Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Responses to Workload Imbalance and the Impact on Audit Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2020 Last revised: 7 Apr 2021

Jin Suk Heo

Hongik university

Soo Young Kwon

Korea University

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 7, 2020

Abstract

Using detailed data for fieldwork hours and audit hours by rank from audit engagements in Korea, we examine whether audits conducted under workload imbalance, proxied by busy-season audits, impair audit quality, and how auditors adjust staff assignments for busy-season audits. We generally find that busy-season audits are associated with lower audit quality, and that audit firms reduce the involvement of senior auditors during busy-season audits. In addition, the greater the involvement of senior auditors and junior auditors, the lesser the deterioration in audit quality. Finally, although there is no increase in interim audits in response to workload imbalance during busy seasons, increasing interim audits can mitigate the negative impact of busy-season audits on audit quality. Our results are relevant to auditors and regulators, who have expressed concerns about the adverse effects of workload imbalance on audit quality.

Keywords: workload imbalance, busy-season audits, audit quality, labor mix, end-of-year auditor hours by rank, interim audits

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Heo, Jin Suk and Kwon, Soo Young and Tan, Hun-Tong, Auditors’ Responses to Workload Imbalance and the Impact on Audit Quality (March 7, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3550392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M Defond , J Jiambalvo
Debt covenant violation and manipulation of accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 145 - 176 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Defond , J Francis
Audit research after Sarbanes-Oxley
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 24 , p. 5 - 30 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Doyle , G Weili , S Mcvay
Accruals quality and internal control over financial reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 1141 - 1170 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Brant E. Christensen , Nathan J. Newton , Michael S. Wilkins
How Do Team Workloads and Team Staffing Affect the Audit? Archival Evidence from U.S. Audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming · 61 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 7 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,840
RANK
189,749
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies