Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners’ Judgments and Challenges in the Audit of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

63 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2020

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Jay C. Thibodeau

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Greg Trompeter

University of Central Florida

Date Written: February 10, 2020

Abstract

Internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) audits have been the subject of intensive examination by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and researchers, and the SEC has signaled ongoing interest in the monitoring of ICFR. However, the process through which auditors make ICFR judgments and decisions has remained largely a “black box”, that has been relatively unexplored. To better understand how auditors make ICFR judgments, we conducted in-depth, semi-structured interviews with twenty highly experienced audit partners. Common themes in our interviews suggest that the subjectivity inherent in the ICFR evaluation task contributes to resistance against ICFR audit findings and counterarguments from management. In addition, auditors perceive that their judgments are being second-guessed by PCAOB inspectors. Auditors perceive that managers have difficulty accepting that a material weakness can exist without a detected error, management’s reflexive reaction is to deny/avoid a material weakness finding, and that managers routinely claim that management review controls (MRCs) would have caught the detected control deficiency. Consistent with the PCAOB’s practice alert to auditors on the importance of evaluating MRCs, the partners stressed the importance of evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of their client’s MRCs. Auditors cope with management’s defenses by consulting with national office and leveraging support from strong audit committees. Implications for research, practice, and public policy are discussed.

Keywords: Internal controls, audit partner judgment, compensating controls, root cause analysis, management defensiveness, auditor-client conflict, management review controls, audit quality, PCAOB oversight, tone at the top

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Joe, Jennifer R. and Thibodeau, Jay C. and Trompeter, Gregory, Audit Partners’ Judgments and Challenges in the Audit of Internal Control over Financial Reporting (February 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3551763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S Asare , B Fitzgerald , L Graham , J Joe , E Negangard , C Wolfe
Auditors' internal control over financial reporting decisions: Analysis, synthesis and research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E M Bamber , D Snowball , R M Tubbs
Audit structure and its relation to role conflict and role
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 299 Posted: 1989
J Barron , J Hershey
Outcome bias in decision evaluation
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 569 - 579 Posted: 1988
Crossref
M Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson , T Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,152
RANK
187,425
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies