Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Availability of Audit Partners Affect Audit Quality? China Evidence

The Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance

Posted: 24 Nov 2020 Last revised: 28 Dec 2020

Agnes W. Y. Lo

Lingnan University

Kenny Lin

Lingnan University

Raymond M. K. Wong

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 22, 2019

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether Chinese CPA firms with more partners available to perform audit engagements deliver higher quality services. Based on a sample of 2,990 company-year observations over the period 2002–2015, we find that CPA firms with smaller staff-partner ratios are associated with a lower likelihood of restatements of their clients’ financial statements. Interestingly, we find this association is less evident when engagement partners have excessive workloads, suggesting the need to balance workloads across partners within a firm. Overall, our results highlight the importance of considering partner availability and its impacts on audit quality, which echo regulators’ growing concern about the inadequate mix of audit experience, expertise, and supervision within CPA firms. Our study is timely and the results are informative to the recent policy debate. From a public policy perspective, our results suggest that CPA firms should be required to disclose information about the deployment of audit partners to help financial statement users make inferences about the quality of their work.

Keywords: staff-partner ratio; auditor availability; audit quality; partner workload

JEL Classification: M12, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lo, Agnes W. Y. and Lin, Kenny and Wong, Raymond M. K., Does Availability of Audit Partners Affect Audit Quality? China Evidence (December 22, 2019). The Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553601
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies