Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Trial Preparation Factors Influence Audit Litigation Outcomes: Insights from Audit Litigators

47 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2020 Last revised: 10 May 2023

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 15, 2023

Abstract

Research indicates that auditors have an impoverished understanding of trial preparation factors that, independent of audit quality, can significantly elevate audit litigation risk. As the scholarly literature sheds little insight about the nature and implications of these factors, we identify what factors audit litigators consider in trial preparation, how they expect these factors to affect litigation outcomes, and how they attempt to lever these factors. To do so, we interview 39 audit litigators, who identify factors germane to trial venues, jury pools, and case arguments. Guided by the Elaboration Likelihood Model, we construct a framework that predicts these factors influence litigation outcomes by changing jurors’ motivation and/or capability to elaborate. Importantly, we find that litigators who defend (sue) auditors strategically maneuver these factors to increase (decrease) the likelihood of higher juror elaboration because it is favorable to auditors. We discuss implications of our results for practice and research.

Keywords: audit litigation, litigators, case merits, Elaboration Likelihood Model

JEL Classification: M4, M42, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Maksymov, Eldar M. and Peecher, Mark E. and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Zhou, Yuepin, How Trial Preparation Factors Influence Audit Litigation Outcomes: Insights from Audit Litigators (April 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3555475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J C Alexander
Do the merits matter? A study of settlements in securities class actions
Stanford Law Review , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 497 - 598 Posted: 1991-02
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
D Arnott , S Gao
Behavioral economics for decision support systems researchers
Decision Support Systems , volume 122 Posted: 2019
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
248,130
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies