Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Specialist of Information System on Audit Risk: Evidence from Korea

Journal of International Trade & Commerce Vol. 16, No.1, February 2020 (pp.77-93)

17 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Tae-Hyoung Mun

Mokwon University

Hyun-Uk Jung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 27, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this study is to analyze the influence of IS audit time variables using accrual quality as a proxy for audit risk.

Design/methodology/approach – The sample population of this study includes the firms that publicly noticed the special auditor time of IS from 2014 to 2017.

Findings – In the case of the absolute value of discretionary accrual quality by the dependent variable is found to be significant. Based on the main variables of IS audit (In), the audit specialist time of IS is found to be significantly and negatively influential. This means that a rise in the audit specialist time of IS significantly negative influences the absolute value of accrual quality and thereby reduces audit risk.

Research implications or Originality – This study is meaningful in that it researches empirically the effect of IS audit time on audit risk in a situation where the importance of IS audit is emphasized. This study suggests that it is sustainable to enhance the professionalism of IS audit to respond to the rapidly changing auditing market along with the development of IT.

Keywords: Accrual Quality, Audit Risk, Audit Specialist of Information System, Audit Time

JEL Classification: M14, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mun, Tae-Hyoung and Jung, Hyun-Uk, The Effect of Audit Specialist of Information System on Audit Risk: Evidence from Korea (February 27, 2020). Journal of International Trade & Commerce Vol. 16, No.1, February 2020 (pp.77-93), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3556243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Notes: 1. Bold Pont denote significance at 5% level, respectively
DD: The absolute value of accrual quality of Dechow and Dichev
Mc
The absolute value of accrual quality of McNichols
The natural log value of IS audit specialist's auditing time
IS audit (In)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
RANK
493,078
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies