Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Combined Assurance Affect the Reliability of Integrated Reports and Investors’ Judgments?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Apr 2020 Last revised: 20 Apr 2020

Hien Hoang

UNSW Sydney School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Date Written: March 18, 2020

Abstract

As integrated reports evolve to meet the needs of stakeholders, it is increasingly important to establish reliable information. We examine the effect of a new technique to enhance the reporting reliability, referred to as ‘combined assurance’ (through which the audit committee coordinates the assurance roles of management, internal assurance and external assurance providers and concludes on the effectiveness of risk management, internal controls and reporting quality), on restoring investors’ willingness to invest when there are significant reporting reliability risks. We conduct a series of experiments with different operationalizations of reporting reliability risks. We find that the communication of combined assurance can restore investors’ perceived reliability of reported information and willingness to invest when there is bad news (Experiment 1); when there is a non-financial key audit matter (KAM) indicating estimation uncertainty in the non-financial information (Experiment 2); and when there is a financial KAM indicating risks of manipulated financial reporting (Experiment 3). Our study has implications for practitioners, standard setters, and regulators who are exploring possible mechanisms to enhance the reliability of financial and non-financial information in the integrated reports.

Keywords: audit report, combined assurance, integrated report, investor judgment, key audit matters

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Hien and Phang, Soon-Yeow, How Does Combined Assurance Affect the Reliability of Integrated Reports and Investors’ Judgments? (March 18, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3556294
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies