Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Auditors' Client Service Affects Managers' Cooperation with Auditor Evidence Requests

53 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2020 Last revised: 25 Apr 2022

Richard C. Hatfield

University of Alabama

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Eddie Thomas

Georgia College & State University

Date Written: March 07, 2024

Abstract

Audit quality is threatened when client managers are uncooperative (i.e., slow to provide evidence or not forthcoming with evidence). Drawing on Social Exchange Theory, we examine whether auditors can increase client manager cooperation by providing better client service in their day-to-day interactions with client managers. For example, auditors can provide better client service by minimizing disruptions and communicating more effectively. Across two experiments with 114 experienced client managers, we find that managers experiencing better client service respond timelier to auditor requests and are more forthcoming with evidence, including evidence that contradicts their preferred accounting position. Our findings suggest that auditors can use client service strategically to increase access to important information, but anecdotal interviews with experienced auditors suggest that these strategic benefits are not at the forefront of auditors’ minds. Together, our study informs practice by illuminating strategic benefits of better client service and complements prior research emphasizing how client satisfaction objectives and strategies can benefit auditors commercially and when negotiating with clients.  

Keywords: audit evidence, client service, cooperation, social exchange

Suggested Citation:

Hatfield, Richard C. and Hoang, Kris and Ricci, Michael and Thomas, Edward, How Auditors' Client Service Affects Managers' Cooperation with Auditor Evidence Requests (March 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3560921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3560921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S K Asare , A M Cianci , G T Tsakumis
The impact of competing goals, experience, and litigation consciousness on auditors' judgments
International Journal of Auditing , volume 13 , p. 223 - 236 Posted: 2009
T F Barr , K M Mcneilly
Airing the dirty laundry: The missteps of professional service firms after client service failures
Services Marketing Quarterly , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2003
V Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
Behind closed doors: What company audit is really about Posted: 2001
B K Behn , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , R H Hermanson
The determinants of audit client satisfaction among clients of Big 6 firms
Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,799
RANK
178,213
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies