Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characteristics of Auditors’ Non-Audit Services and Accruals Quality in Malaysia

Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 32 No. 2, pp. 147-175, 2020. DOI/10.1108/PAR-10-2018-0072

Posted: 20 Apr 2020

Effiezal Aswadi Abdul Wahab

School of Accounting, Economics and Finance, Curtin University

Wan Zurina Nik Abdul Majid

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Iman Harymawan

Universitas Airlangga

Dian Agustia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: Januari 27, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The purchase of non-audit services from incumbent auditors has generated considerable attention. This study aims to examine the relationship between characteristics of non-audit services, namely, the recurrence and types of services, and accruals quality in Malaysia.

Design/methodology/approach: This study analyzed hand-collected audit and non-audit fees of 1,117 observations from Malaysian firms from 2009 to 2011. This study used descriptive analysis, univariate tests and multivariate regression to investigate the potential effect of non-audit services on accruals quality.

Findings: Non-audit services are associated with lower accruals quality. Recurring and non-recurring non-audit service fees are detrimental to the quality of accruals, as are all types of recurring non-audit services. Only non-recurring audit-related services decrease accruals quality. The results demonstrate that provisions of non-audit services create economic bonding, and thus a threat to auditor independence. Results remain robust with the inclusion of corporate governance and institutional variables.

Research limitations/implications: The sample period might represent a limitation as it only covers three years of data. This limitation is mainly because of the nature of data collection of the non-audit services fees.

Practical implications: The findings could suggest a refinement on the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) by-laws focusing on auditor independence, and it could assist other regulative bodies such as the Securities Commission, the stock exchange (Bursa Malaysia) in ensuring better governance on the provision of non-audit services.

Originality/value: This study is the first that provides evidence on the relationship between non-audit services, types, and recurring and non-recurring non-audit services and accruals quality in Malaysia.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Accruals Quality, Non-Audit Services, Knowledge Spillover, Economic Bonding, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abdul Wahab, Effiezal Aswadi and Nik Abdul Majid, Wan Zurina and Harymawan, Iman and Agustia, Dian, Characteristics of Auditors’ Non-Audit Services and Accruals Quality in Malaysia (Januari 27, 2020). Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 32 No. 2, pp. 147-175, 2020. DOI/10.1108/PAR-10-2018-0072, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3562004
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies