Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Fee Premiums and Low Quality Internal Controls

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Gil S. Bae

Korea University - Department of Accounting

Seung Uk Choi

Korea University - Department of Accounting

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Jae Eun Lee

Hongik University - School of Business

Date Written: March 24, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relation between low quality internal controls and audit fee premiums. Using a novel dataset of audit hours and audit fees we find, consistent with the audit risk model, that auditors increase their effort (hours) due to low internal control quality. We find that auditors also charge a significant fee premium to clients with internal control weaknesses. This premium is observed for severe internal control weaknesses and companies with low quality alternative governance mechanisms. The results are robust to multiple methods to address endogeneity including company-fixed effects, difference-in-differences design, and a propensity-score matched sample. Taken as a whole, low internal control quality leads to fee premiums, which are a deadweight loss to client companies.

Keywords: Internal control, Audit fees, Auditor effort, Risk premium, Korea

JEL Classification: M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Gil Soo and Choi, Seung Uk and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Lee, Jae Eun, Auditors’ Fee Premiums and Low Quality Internal Controls (March 24, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3564505
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies