Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Persistence in the U.S. Audit Market

102 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2020 Last revised: 20 Jul 2023

Will Ciconte

School of Business, University of Kansas; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy; University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Andrew Kitto

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: June 20, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between local audit market competition, audit quality and effort. Using proprietary data on auditor realization rates, we construct new measures of competition based on theory predicting that abnormal profits will quickly disappear in competitive markets but persist over multiple periods in less competitive environments. We find consistent evidence of persistent abnormal profits among U.S. Big 4 engagements, suggesting that some local audit markets are not competitive. Although concentration is associated with our measure, we also find evidence that individual offices earn persistent abnormal returns, consistent with differentiation. Examining the consequences of lower competition, we find that profit persistence is negatively related to audit effort and positively related to audit quality. Although we are cautious about inferring causality, our findings are consistent with overcharging rather than under- or over-treating.

Keywords: audit firm competition, profit persistence, audit market concentration, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Ciconte, Will and Kitto, Andrew, Profit Persistence in the U.S. Audit Market (June 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3565193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3565193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
E I Altman
Predicting financial distress of companies: revisiting the Z-score and ZETA models
Stern School of Business , p. 9 - 12 Posted: 2000
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , ; , N Newberger
The Economics of Audit Production: What Matters for Audit Quality? An Empirical Analysis of the Role of Mid-level Managers within the Audit Firm Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,617
RANK
242,798
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies