Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditor Assurance of Client Prosocial Activities Affect Subsequent Reporter-Auditor Negotiations?

Accounting, Organizations and Society

50 Pages Posted: 5 May 2020 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Jeremy Douthit

University of Arizona - Dhaliwal-Reidy School of Accountancy

Steven J. Kachelmeier

University of Texas at Austin

Ben W. Van Landuyt

University of Arizona

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

In two incentivized experiments, we investigate the potential for auditor assurance of prosocial activities akin to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives to bias the initial positions and final outcomes of subsequent reporter-auditor negotiations. This possibility arises from the psychological theory of licensing, with a prosocial activity providing the motivation for licensing, while auditor assurance provides a perceived opportunity for licensing. We find that the combination of a preliminary prosocial activity by the reporter with auditor assurance of that activity leads reporters to specify more aggressive initial negotiation positions, although it does not result in more lenient initial positions by the auditor. The final outcomes of reporter-auditor negotiations are biased in the reporter’s favor in our first experiment, in which auditor assurance of a prosocial reporter activity is of a social and collaborative nature. This result does not extend to our second experiment in which auditor assurance is not collaborative, although we still observe more aggressive reporters. Overall, our research identifies aggressive reporting as a potential unintended consequence of ESG assurance, especially when that assurance is of a more collaborative variety.

Keywords: financial reporting; auditor independence; moral licensing; Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives; accounting estimates; experimental economics

Suggested Citation:

Douthit, Jeremy and Kachelmeier, Steven J. and Van Landuyt, Ben W., Does Auditor Assurance of Client Prosocial Activities Affect Subsequent Reporter-Auditor Negotiations? (March 1, 2024). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3571812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3571812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D J Ahler , C E Roush , G Sood
The micro-task market for lemons: Data quality on Amazon's Mechanical Turk
Political Science Research and Methods Posted: 2021
Sustainability: The World Wants It Posted: 2018-03-13
A A Arechar , D G Rand
Turking in the time of COVID
Behavior Research Methods , volume 53 , p. 2591 - 2595 Posted: 2021
B Asante-Appiah , T A Lambert
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 2589 - 2641 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
213,115
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies