Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of audit partner digitalization expertise on audit fees

44 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Arpine Maghakyan

University of Glasgow; University of Glasgow

Henry Jarva

Hanken School of Economics

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Jukka Sihvonen

Aalto University

Date Written: December 19, 2023

Abstract

This study focuses on the effects of digitalization on the auditing industry and the impact of audit partner expertise in digitalization on audit fees. Using data from listed U.S. companies between 2016 and 2021, we document a statistically and economically significant audit fee premium for audit partners who specialize in digitalization. This premium is separate from the partner’s industry specialization and is strongest in industries with a high level of digitalization, especially during the first half of the sample period. Our subsample analysis shows that, while the premium appears to be diminishing in less digitalized industries, it remains significant in highly digitalized industries. This change may be due to the general increase in digitalization expertise among audit partners, leading to diminishing returns to specialization for less digitalized audits.

Keywords: audit partner expertise, auditor specialization, audit fees, digitalization, auditor knowledge, audit technology

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Maghakyan, Arpine and Jarva, Henry and Niemi, Lasse and Sihvonen, Jukka, The effect of audit partner digitalization expertise on audit fees (December 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big Data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D Aobdia , S Siddiqui , A Vinelli
Heterogeneity in expertise in a credence goods setting: Evidence from audit partners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , p. 693 - 729 Posted: 2021
G S Bae , S U Choi , J E Lee
Auditor industry specialization and audit pricing and effort
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 75 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Md Jahidur Rahman , Ao Ziru
Clients’ digitalization, audit firms’ digital expertise, and audit quality: evidence from China
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 221 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,674
RANK
99,374
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies