Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-thinking Source Credibility: How the Sleeper Effect of Credibility Influences Auditors' Evaluations of Audit Evidence

51 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Jennifer McCallen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

G. Bradley Bennett

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: April 14, 2020

Abstract

Auditing standards require auditors to consider management sources when evaluating evidence. However, standards are silent on how auditors should identify and incorporate relevant source information into evidence evaluation, despite the source’s importance to evidence evaluation. The “sleeper effect of the source,” a psychological phenomenon, occurs when the persuasiveness of a weak message increases over time when delivered by a credible source. Research highlights that credibility is multi-dimensional and that competence, one dimension of credibility, is context-specific. That is, an expert in one area may lack knowledge in other areas. Using an experiment, we find that when a credible source provides unconvincing evidence, auditors are subject to a sleeper effect. Current audit practices regarding management assessments result in auditors focusing on overall credibility, as opposed to context-specific competence, when evaluating evidence. We propose and test a documentation intervention that aids auditors in incorporating context-specific competence into evidence evaluations and moderates the sleeper effect.

Keywords: evidence evaluation, auditor-client interactions, source credibility, context-specific competence, audit documentation, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

McCallen, Jennifer and Agoglia, Christopher P. and Bennett, George Bradley, Re-thinking Source Credibility: How the Sleeper Effect of Credibility Influences Auditors' Evaluations of Audit Evidence (April 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The Effects of Audit Review Format on Review Team Judgments
Auditing: a Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
D Albarracín , G T Kumkale , P Poyner-Del Vento
How people can become persuaded by weak messages presented by credible communicators: Not all sleeper effects are created equal
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , volume 68 , p. 171 - 180 Posted: 2017
D Albarracín , S Shavitt
Attitudes and attitude change
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 69 , p. 299 - 327 Posted: 2018
U L Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The effects of source-competence information and its timing on auditors' performance of analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 1994
Load more
2 Citations
Sanaz Aghazadeh , J. Owen Brown , Laura Guichard , Kris Hoang
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 145 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Michal Shapira , Erez Yaakobi , David Mazursky
White bears can walk long distances: The effects of an instruction to ignore information located in a visually differentiated location on attitude change over time
Current Psychology , volume 42 , issue 13 , p. 11079 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
RANK
281,840
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies