Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shifting Human/Technology Agency and Auditor Legal Liability

Posted: 9 May 2020

Peter Kipp

University of North Texas

Elaine Mauldin

University of Missouri Trulaske College of Business

Neal M. Snow

Wright State University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 15, 2020

Abstract

Recent advances in decentralized, autonomous technology enables replacement of human agents with technology agents that perform recurring transactions with little human intervention. Theory suggests that this shift from human to technology agency will change perceptions of causality which could affect surrounding legal institutions. Of course, since humans both develop and audit the autonomous system, legal liability for a failure should not change because of the system that generated the failure. However, based on the human/computer interaction literature, we predict that jurors will shift liability assessments from the auditor to the system. In a between-participants experiment with eligible jurors, we manipulate human intervention in the transaction processing system (human agency versus technology agency) and the auditor’s collection of substantive test evidence (less versus more), and we measure participants’ association of technology with success (technology optimism). For human agency, we find the auditor’s conduct of substantive tests is associated with jurors’ assessments of auditor causal influence, while the conduct of substantive tests is not associated with jurors’ assessments for technology agency. Instead, for technology agency, we find jurors’ technology optimism is associated with jurors’ assessments of auditor causal influence, consistent with jurors focusing on the system rather than the auditor’s evidence collection. Together our results suggest that shifts in human/technology agency could lead to unintended shifts in judgments of auditor liability that depend on the client’s transaction processing system rather than the auditor’s extent of evidence.

Keywords: Transaction Processing Systems, Audit Evidence; Technology Optimism, Auditor Legal Liability, Juror Judgments

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kipp, Peter and Mauldin, Elaine and Snow, Neal M, Shifting Human/Technology Agency and Auditor Legal Liability (April 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576537
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies