Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Gender and Ethnic Diversity among Audit Partners Influence Office-Level Audit Personnel Retention and Audit Quality?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020 Last revised: 30 Apr 2023

Eric Condie

Georgia Institute of Technology

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

J. Mike Truelson

Mississippi State University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 26, 2023

Abstract

Motivated by prior literature on organizational identification and 23 semistructured interviews with a variety of U.S. audit partners and directors, we examine whether the gender and ethnic diversity of an office’s audit partners influences the retention of the office’s audit professionals and the quality of the audits conducted by the office. Using hand-collected data on U.S. audit partners, we find that greater levels of (or changes in) diversity in office audit partners’ gender and ethnicity are associated with lower (reduced) turnover among office audit professionals and higher (increased) office-level audit quality. To provide further insight into the audit quality results, we conduct a path analysis based on the most common mechanisms highlighted in our interviews. The results indicate partial mediation through increased retention, greater gender and ethnic diversity among office audit personnel, client continuity, and increased efficiency. Further tests reveal that the association with audit quality is incremental to, and distinct from, the effect of individual engagement partner characteristics and does not reflect client screening. Collectively, the findings underscore the importance of gender and ethnic diversity among office audit partners to organizational outcomes and provide important practical implications for audit firms.

Keywords: diversity, leadership, audit quality, audit offices, audit partners, audit fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Condie, Eric and Lisic, Ling Lei and Seidel, Timothy A. and Truelson, Jonathan and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Does Gender and Ethnic Diversity among Audit Partners Influence Office-Level Audit Personnel Retention and Audit Quality? (April 26, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3576668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
Accounting & Financial Women's Alliance
Accounting MOVE Project Report. Promotions, Plateaus and Possibilities Posted: 2019
R Anderson , D Reeb , A Upadhyay , W Zhao
The economics of director heterogeneity
Financial Management , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 38 Posted: 2011
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity and the organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,375
RANK
66,828
1 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies