Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence of Laws and Its Limits: A Case Study of Turkish and EU Laws on Auditing

Journal of Commercial and Intellectual Property Law, 2019

22 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Apr 2021

Hatice Kubra Kandemir

İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

Classifications on the world’s legal systems have long been the subject to studies in comparative law. The modern comparative approach however, no longer relies solely on the classic categorization of common-civil law countries. This general classification fails to consider that legal systems can change through time and not all areas of law share the same patterns. For instance, firms (and countries) adopt international rules and standards voluntarily. This kind of convergence can mostly appear in the field of commercial law, including the field of auditing where the effect of economic integration of markets is in place. In this respect, in order to be a part of the global economy and to attract foreign direct investment, Turkey reformed its commercial law and capital markets law. In addition, there are political forces for convergence such as the EU requirement for Turkey to adopt EU laws. This paper critically investigates the forces for convergence and questions to what extent the laws on auditing are converging between EU and Turkey. It concludes that despite the formal convergence, actual convergence has not been achieved fully and differences still persist due to the institutional disparities.

Keywords: corporate governance, external audit, convergence

Suggested Citation:

Kandemir, Hatice Kubra, Convergence of Laws and Its Limits: A Case Study of Turkish and EU Laws on Auditing (July 1, 2019). Journal of Commercial and Intellectual Property Law, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Armour
Who Should Make Corporate Law? EC Legislation versus Regulatory Competition
Current Legal Problems , volume 58 , p. 369 - 413 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , T D Watfield
Audit as a Corporate Governance Mechanism: Evidence from the German Market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2012
Crossref
I Atiyas
Economic Institutions and Economic Change in Turkey during the Neoliberal Era
New Perspectives on Turkey , volume 14 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M M Baç
Turkey's Political Reforms and the Impact of the European Union
South European Society and Politics Journal , volume 10 , p. 17 - 31 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies