Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates

Gold, A., K. Kadous, and J. Leiby. 2024. Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates. The Accounting Review, forthcoming.

56 Pages Posted: 12 May 2020 Last revised: 1 Feb 2024

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

Auditing standards require that auditors’ reliance on a specialist is commensurate with the specialist’s competence. In assessing competence, auditors encounter cues diagnostic of the specialist’s social status but less so of competence. In an experiment, we manipulate specialist status and find that auditors mistake status for competence unless they are prompted to separate the constructs. This raises the possibility that auditors could over-rely on high-status specialists. However, auditors also assess high-status specialists as more influential and, when the specialist disagrees with the client, they rely more on high-status specialists because of this perceived influence. Thus, high-status specialists can increase auditors’ willingness to challenge the client by providing a strong ally. Additional analyses suggest that auditors are aware that they rely on the specialist’s influence rather than competence, indicating that auditors do not use the process that auditing standards envision to evaluate and rely on specialists.

Keywords: Status, Auditing Complex Estimates, Specialists, Advice

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gold, Anna and Kadous, Kathryn and Leiby, Justin, Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates (January 31, 2024). Gold, A., K. Kadous, and J. Leiby. 2024. Does Status Equal Substance? The Effects of Specialist Social Status on Auditor Assessments of Complex Estimates. The Accounting Review, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3578700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
A Firm's System of Quality Control Posted: 2012
C Anderson , J L Berdahl
The experience of power: Examining the effects of power on approach and inhibition tendencies
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1362 - 1377 Posted: 2002
C Anderson , G J Kilduff
The pursuit of status in social groups , volume 18 , p. 295 - 298 Posted: 2009
C Anderson , G J Kilduff
Why do dominant personalities attain influence in faceto-face groups? The competence-signaling effects of trait dominance
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 491 - 503 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
RANK
201,537
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies