Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All My Rowdy Friends: The Effect of Super Bowl Hosting on Audit Timing

Managerial Auditing Journal

42 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2020 Last revised: 2 Aug 2023

Matthew Crook

University of Mississippi - Department of Finance

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Brian Walkup

Rollins College - Crummer Graduate School of Business

James Whitworth

University of South Florida

Date Written: August 2, 2023

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact hosting the Super Bowl has on audit completion and financial reporting timeliness for companies headquartered in Super Bowl hosting cities.
Design/methodology/approach – Using 16 years of financial reporting data, we use the Super Bowl and related activities, combined with required filings during “busy season,” as a natural experiment to examine how audit firms navigate short-term, exogenously imposed but anticipated, audit team capacity constraints.
Findings – Companies headquartered in a city hosting the Super Bowl, during busy season, have longer audit report lags (by approximately three days, in comparison to non-hosting busy season audits) and less timely SEC (10-K) filings. We find no evidence that Super Bowl hosting affects audit fees or earnings announcement timeliness.
Practical Implications – When confronted with anticipated capacity shocks, audit firms take longer to complete the audit, absorbing the financial costs of the delay and maintaining audit quality, resulting in less timely financial reporting.
Originality/value – Our study demonstrates the costs of Super Bowl-related inefficiencies and contributes to our understanding of how auditors navigate capacity shocks. We provide evidence that auditors can effectively manage business risk and continue to facilitate providing timely and accurate information to financial statement users in the face of a capacity shock.

Keywords: Audit Report Lag, Audit Delay, Audit Fees, Time Pressure

JEL Classification: M42, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Crook, Matthew and Lambert, Tamara A. and Walkup, Brian and Whitworth, James, All My Rowdy Friends: The Effect of Super Bowl Hosting on Audit Timing (August 2, 2023). Managerial Auditing Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3579003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3579003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
K Alanis , D Sweeney
Super Bowl by the numbers: $15 billion spent, and, whoa, how many wings will we eat Posted: 2019-01-29
B Asante-Appiah , T A Lambert
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk" forthcoming
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An empirical analysis of audit delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
401,129
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies