Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual Track or Academic Route for Auditors: Does it Matter?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 640

59 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2002 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Joop Hartog

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB); Tinbergen Institute; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Nicole Jonker

De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB); De Nederlandsche Bank

Hans van Ophem

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB); Tinbergen Institute

Abstract

In the Netherlands auditors can be trained in a part-time educational track in which studentscombine working and studying or in a full-time educational track. The former training isrelatively firm-specific whereas the latter training is relatively general. Applying human capitaltheory, we expect higher wage growth for full-time educated auditors than for dual-educatedauditors. Furthermore, full-time educated auditors may have better outside options than parttimeeducated auditors. This may make it easier for them to switch employers than for thepart-time educated auditors. The predictions on tenure and wages of differently educatedauditors are supported by the estimation results in this paper. The part-time, dual trackappears an important route for students from lower socioeconomic background.

Keywords: mobility, human capital formation, wages, auditors

JEL Classification: C35, C41, J24, J31, J63

Suggested Citation:

Hartog, Joop and Jonker, Nicole and van Ophem, Hans, Dual Track or Academic Route for Auditors: Does it Matter?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 640, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=358289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J G Altonji , R A Shakotko
Do Wages Rise with Job-Seniority?
Review of Economic Studies , volume 54 , p. 437 - 459 Posted: 1987
A Han , J A Hausman
Flexible Parametric Estimation of Duration and Competing Risks Models
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 5 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 1990
N Jonker
Job Performance and Career Prospects of Auditors Posted: 2001
E Imho¤ , J J M Ritzen
Comparing Employment Opportunities of Graduates and Drop-outs of Full-time Education and an in-service training program
Economics of Education Review , volume 8 , p. 159 - 167 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,326
RANK
697,815
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Specific Capital, Mobility, and Wages: Wages Rise with Job Seniority

By Robert H. Topel

Job Mobility and the Careers of Young Men

By Robert H. Topel and Michael P. Ward

Do Wages Rise with Job Seniority?

By Joseph G. Altonji and Robert A. Shakotko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies