Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre-Investment Due Diligence and Audit Practices of Venture Capital Firms in India

21 Pages Posted: 29 May 2020

Seema Bushra

Independent

D. N. Rao

SRMS College of Engineering and Technology; SRMS Institutions, Bareilly

Krity Gulati

Lloyd Business School

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

The pre-investment due diligence is a comprehensive systematic investigation, verification and evaluation of the prospective project before funds are committed. The paper aims to develop a comprehensive due diligence and audit framework to facilitate consistent evaluation of investment proposals. A brief literature review concerning the pre-investment assessment activities has been presented. In order to develop a pragmatic comprehensive framework, which requires a great deal of information and documents to be perused, the Focus group interview method has been adopted.

The resultant discussions had been summarized under various heads - Business proposal screening, Term sheet, Current Valuation and Capital structure, amount of funds needed, structuring the deal, the antecedents of the core management team including the promoters, details of the product/service, nature of completion, industry/sector attractiveness etc. The paper as part of due diligence and audit process suggests the list of documents.

The framework suggested would enable venture capital firms to adopt consistent and robust practices resulting in risk mitigation of its investments in new business ventures.

Keywords: Pre-investment, due diligence, audit process, risk mitigation, venture capital

JEL Classification: G23, G24

Suggested Citation:

Bushra, Seema and Rao, Dabbeeru Neelakanteswar and Gulati, Krity, Pre-Investment Due Diligence and Audit Practices of Venture Capital Firms in India (May 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3590391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3590391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Bindiya Soni , P K Priyan
A Study on Pre-Investment Actions of Indian Venture Capitalists
Pacific Business Review International , volume 5 Posted: 2013
J Camp
Venture Capital Due Diligence, A Guide to Making Smart Investment Choices and increasing Your Portfolio Returns Posted: 2002
Cheedradevi Narayansamy , Athena Hashemoghli , Rasidah Mohd Rashid
Venture Capital Pre-investment Decision Making Process: An Exploratory Study in Malaysia
Global Journal of Business Research , volume 6 , issue 5 Posted: 2012
A Gerald , Joel Benjamin , Margulis
The Angel Investor's Handbook: How to Profit from Early Stage Investing Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
159,412
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies