Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Audit Oversight and Audit Pricing: Evidence from the EU

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020 Last revised: 31 Oct 2022

Annita Florou

Bocconi University

Yuan Shuai

University of Nottingham, Ningbo

Date Written: October 29, 2022

Abstract

We examine the audit pricing consequences of auditor inspections under the public oversight regime in the EU. Employing a staggered differences-in-differences design, we document an inspections audit fee increase during the post-inspection period when companies’ auditors are subject to inspections by the national Public Oversight Body (POB). However, this effect masks significant cross-sectional variation. Specifically, we find that the increase in audit fees attributable to inspections is concentrated among POBs with more adequate human resources, where inspections last longer or occur both at the auditor’s and the regulator’s premises. Also, the effect of inspections on audit fees is evident only when the POB prohibits inspectors from joining an audit firm immediately after their departure or when the oversight system is funded by multiple stakeholders. Overall, our findings suggest that audit costs as reflected in audit fees increase for clients of inspected auditors but only when inspections are more laborious, independent, and rigorous.

Keywords: POB, public oversight; inspections; audit fees

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K22, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Florou, Annita and Shuai, Yuan, Public Audit Oversight and Audit Pricing: Evidence from the EU (October 29, 2022). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3595454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3595454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered DiD estimates
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,596
RANK
198,930
6 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies