Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Response to a Regulatory Shock Affecting Clients’ Trade Credit Risk

Posted: 9 Jun 2020 Last revised: 23 Nov 2021

Stephanie Walton

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Yiyang Zhang

Youngstown State University - Lariccia School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 13, 2020

Abstract

The audits of most clients involve consideration of trade credit risk. However, little is known about how suppliers’ trade credit risks affect their auditors’ decisions that determine audit pricing and audit quality. Data capturing trade credit risk generated by suppliers’ clients is quite limited in availability, and supplier-level changes in such risk are difficult to observe. This study investigates the effects of an exogenous shock to trade credit risk, the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. BAPCPA increases creditor (supplier) protections when a customer initiates a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization proceeding. Thus the Act’s effects largely are restricted to the subset of a supplier’s customers that are closest to bankruptcy. This enables us to employ the exogenous shock to identify the effects of changes in supplier-level credit risk on observable auditor decisions. Using a difference-in-difference design, we find that auditors levy lower audit fees, post-BAPCPA, on suppliers whose customers exhibit greater bankruptcy risk. Cross-sectional tests suggest that this result is stronger when suppliers’ own risks of several types are greater. Evidence suggesting that the decision to charge lower fees is associated with reduced auditor effort (proxied by shorter audit lags) is limited to the year after BAPCPA implementation, 2006. Thus fee reductions in most years are likely to have consisted, in part or in whole, of reductions in auditors’ fee risk premiums. The fee reductions are not associated with several measures of reduced audit quality. The fact that auditors passed rather opaque cost savings along to clients, mostly without reducing audit effort, suggests that the audit market behaved very competitively in this situation.

Suggested Citation:

Walton, Stephanie and Zhang, Yiyang, Auditor Response to a Regulatory Shock Affecting Clients’ Trade Credit Risk (May 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3600165
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,173
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies