Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Clients' Social Ties to Audit Adjustments

Posted: 23 Jun 2020

Wanfu Li

Nanjing University of Finance & Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zi-Tian Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Ziye Zhao

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 18, 2020

Abstract

We extend prior research by exploring the importance of social ties among auditors’ clients to audit quality. On one hand, social ties foster communication among clients concerning how to deal with an auditor, helping clients negotiate against proposed audit adjustments. On the other hand, indications that an auditor provides a low-quality audit to one client are likely to become known to their other clients via social network channels, motivating auditors to impose stricter external monitoring to protect their valuable reputations. In examining audit adjustment data in China to shed light on which force dominates, we find that auditors require more adjustments to earnings for a client whose audit committee members are socially connected with audit committee members of other clients. In contrast, we do not find any perceptible impact of social connections stemming from top management on auditors’ decisions to book an adjustment, consistent with executives not always demanding accounting transparency. Additional mechanism analysis reveals that auditors expend more effort on engagements involving socially connected clients.

Keywords: Social Ties, Audit Adjustments, Audit Effort

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wanfu and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Zi-Tian and Zhao, Ziye, The Importance of Clients' Social Ties to Audit Adjustments (May 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3603706
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies