Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Are the Audit-Related Implications of Firm Profitability?

60 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Date Written: May 18, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the implications of firm profitability, as a potential indication of audit-related risk, to audit quality, auditor reporting, auditor continuance decisions, and audit pricing in the post-SOX environment. Using a sample of non-financial public companies over the period 2005 – 2017, I find that profitability: is an important determinant of audit quality among profit firms; informs auditor reporting decisions such that when firm profitability is lower, auditors are more likely to report internal control weaknesses and express substantial doubt about the client’s ability to continue as a going concern; and, is an important consideration in audit pricing only for profit firms. These inferences continue to hold when I address the potentially endogenous nature of firm profitability, use first difference estimation that captures changes in firm profitability, and assess the importance of profitability relative to other predictors. I contribute to practice and to the auditing literature by providing a focused, contemporary examination of firm profitability in the audit setting. My results suggest that low firm profitability may not be as timely and reliable of an indication of risk as predominantly believed.

Keywords: Auditors, Client Business Risk, Audit Risk, Profitability, Audit Quality, Auditor Reporting, Auditor Resignation, Audit Pricing

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith, What Are the Audit-Related Implications of Firm Profitability? (May 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3604647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T B Bell , F Marrs , I Solomon , H Thomas
Auditing Organizations Through a StrategicSystems Lens: The KPMG Business Measurement Process Posted: 1997
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,326
RANK
386,928
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies