Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assurance of Integrated Reports: An Exploratory Study From Egypt

Diab, A. A. & Abd-Elazim, S. I (2018). Assurance of integrated reports: An exploratory study from Egypt. مجلة الدراسات المالیة والتجاریة, 28(2), 40-68. doi: 10.21608/mosj.2018.89942.

29 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2020

Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab

Beni Suef University; Prince Sultan University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to investigate the extent of the presentation of integrated reporting as well as the provision of assurance of integrated reports by external auditors in Egypt. The research issues under study are informed by the stakeholder and institutional perspectives. Methodologically, we used the questionnaire instrument to collect data from external auditors registered on the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority (FRA). In general, we found a limited provision of integrated reports as well as assurance of this kind of reports by Egyptian public companies. This was mainly found to be ascribed to the nonobligation of local companies to issue integrated reports and to solicit external auditors to provide assurance of these reports, as well as the lack of professional standards and guidelines that empower accountants and auditors to do so. The study has implications for local regulatory and business organizations –it directs their attention to the extant gap in the practice of integrated reporting in Egypt, and hence to the actions required by regulatory bodies to reap the awaited benefits of adopting integrated reporting as outlined in the literature.

Keywords: Integrated reporting, Assurance services, Egypt, Nonfinancial information.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Diab, Ahmed Abdelnaby, Assurance of Integrated Reports: An Exploratory Study From Egypt (2018). Diab, A. A. & Abd-Elazim, S. I (2018). Assurance of integrated reports: An exploratory study from Egypt. مجلة الدراسات المالیة والتجاریة, 28(2), 40-68. doi: 10.21608/mosj.2018.89942., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3605758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
AA1000AS (AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2008
Crossref
Abdel Shahid , S
The impact of globalization on capital markets: the Egyptian case. The Arab Bank Review , volume 5 , p. 7 - 15 Posted: 2003
B Ackers
Corporate social responsibility assurance: how do South African publicly listed companies compare?
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C A Adams
The international integrated reporting council: a call to action
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 27 , p. 23 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
724
RANK
644,872
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies