Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Competition and Audit Offices' Client Portfolio Risk

59 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020 Last revised: 14 Oct 2022

Daun Jang

California State University, Sacramento, College of Business, Department of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 13, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether audit market competition influences the risk profile of audit offices' client portfolios and whether audit offices' client risk profiles affect the association between audit market competition and audit quality. Economic theory suggests that market competition can affect a company's risk-taking, but there is limited evidence on whether audit market competition affects audit offices' client portfolio management. Two streams of prior research separately investigate whether risk avoidance affects auditors’ portfolio management decisions and whether audit market competition affects audit quality. We suggest that audit market competition influences audit offices' acceptance or continuation of risky clients by reducing the available acceptable clients. The increased riskiness of audit offices' client portfolios, in turn, affects the audit quality provided by audit offices. We find that audit market competition at both the MSA and MSA-industry levels increases the riskiness of audit offices' client portfolios. Furthermore, results from path analysis suggest that audit market competition through increases in audit offices' client portfolio risk explains a significant amount of the total effect of audit market competition on audit quality. This study contributes to the prior literature examining audit offices' management of client portfolio risk and whether audit market competition affects client portfolio risk and, ultimately, audit quality. It also sheds light on the regulatory concern over the concentrated audit market by suggesting one potential negative effect of high audit market competition.

Keywords: Audit market competition, risk-taking, audit offices, client portfolio, audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jang, Daun and Omer, Thomas C., Audit Market Competition and Audit Offices' Client Portfolio Risk (October 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3606814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3606814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , R Levine
Bank concentration, competition, and crises: First results
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 30 , p. 1581 - 1603 Posted: 2006
J C Bedard , D R Deis , M B Curtis , J G Jenkins
Risk monitoring and control in audit firms: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 218 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
377,395
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies