Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Innovation and Audit Fees

Posted: 2 Jun 2020

Daqun Zhang

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, Department of Accounting

Donald R. Deis

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Hsiao-Tang Hsu

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

Date Written: May 23, 2020

Abstract

Economic literature documents that the rate of investment in intangibles has exceeded tangible assets in the U.S. private sector since the mid-1990s. However, whether or how the internally developed intangibles affect auditors’ risk assessment and work has received little attention. This study investigates whether the features of corporate innovation are associated with audit fees and going-concern opinions. Using patent-based metrics to measure the features of innovation, we find that the complexity of corporate innovation is positively associated with audit fees. Firms with higher innovation efficiency (more aged patent portfolio) are associated with lower (higher) audit fees. Furthermore, firms with higher innovation complexity or higher proportions of intangibles are more likely to receive going-concern opinions while those obtaining patents timelier are less likely to receive going-concern opinions. Overall, the results suggest that auditors reasonably incorporate innovation risk into their pricing and going-concern decisions, even though most of the innovation outputs are not captured and reported in current accounting systems.

Keywords: Audit Fees; Intangible Assets; Innovation; Efficiency

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Daqun and Deis, Donald R. and Hsu, Hsiao-Tang, Corporate Innovation and Audit Fees (May 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3608996
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,225
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies