Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do We Know About Audit Failure so Far?

Accountancy Business and the Public Interest, 2020

30 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2020

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Yuhan Ying

Wenzhou-Kean University

Linjie Zhu

Wenzhou-Kean University

Pengju Ji

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: May 25, 2020

Abstract

This article presents a comprehensive review of academic research pertaining to audit failure. This literature review is based on auditing-related articles published in leading journals during the 1976-2019 period. We organize our review around three main groups, namely (a) proxy measures of audit failure, (b) causes of audit failure, and (c) effects of audit failure. We observe that the literature uses a variety of proxies to capture audit failure, such as auditors’ going concern opinions (GCOs), material misstatements, auditor communication, financial reporting quality, and perceptions. We find that there are three signals of audit failure: non-issuance of a GCO prior to a business failure, material misstatements in the last audited financial statements, and violation of the code issued by regulators. We find that audit failures reduce clients’ market value and the auditor’s ability to retain clients. There is also evidence that larger penalties for audit failure result in higher audit fees and overinvestment in audit effort and that increased liability decreases audit failure and reduces auditor shirking. A related objective of this paper is to shed light on audit failure by Big N and non-Big N auditors separately. We observe that the audit failure rate is lower for Big N auditors than for non-Big N auditors. Our findings have implications for government policies, regulators, auditors, investors, and academics.


Keywords: Audit failure, economic cycle, rule-checking mentality, going concern opinion, financial misstatement, and peer review report

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md and Ying, Yuhan and Zhu, Linjie and Ji, Pengju, What Do We Know About Audit Failure so Far? (May 25, 2020). Accountancy Business and the Public Interest, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3610239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R &amp;hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of accounting research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H V Bauwhede , M &amp;willekens
Evidence on (the lack of) audit-quality differentiation in the private client segment of the Belgian audit market
European accounting review , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 501 - 522 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,039
RANK
19,307
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies