Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors and the Principal-Principal Agency Conflict in Family-Controlled Firms

Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

47 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2020

Chiraz Ben Ali

Concordia university

Sabri Boubaker

Ecole de Management de Normandie

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 30, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines whether multiple large shareholders (MLS) affect audit fees in firms where the largest controlling shareholder (LCS) is a family. Results show that there is a negative relationship between audit fees and the presence, number, and voting power of MLS. This is consistent with the view that auditors consider MLS as playing a monitoring role over the LCS, mitigating the potential for expropriation by the LCS. Therefore, our evidence suggests that auditors reduce their audit risk assessment and audit effort and ultimately audit fees in family-controlled firms with MLS.

Keywords: Multiple large shareholders; Private benefits of control; Corporate governance; Audit fees.

JEL Classification: G32; G34; M42; D86

Suggested Citation:

Ben Ali, Chiraz and Boubaker, Sabri and Magnan, Michel, Auditors and the Principal-Principal Agency Conflict in Family-Controlled Firms (May 30, 2020). Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3614168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
J H Choi , J B Kim , X Liu , D A Simunic
Cross-listing audit fee premiums: Theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1463 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Claessens , S Djankov , L H P Lang
The separation of ownership and control in East Asian corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , issue 1-2 , p. 81 - 112 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Claessens , S Djankov , J H Fan , L P Lang
Disentangling the incentive and entrenchment effects of large shareholdings
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2741 - 2771 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Cronqvist , M Nilsson
Agency costs of controlling minority shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 695 - 719 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
556,623
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies