Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Learning and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Spillover Effects of Auditing Cross-Listed Clients*

72 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2021 Last revised: 5 Apr 2024

Wei Luo

The University of Hong Kong - HKU - Faculty of Business and Economics - Accounting Area

Yanxin Luo

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management, Department of Accounting, Students

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper employs a difference-indifferences approach to study whether a Chinese audit firm improves its audit quality through organizational learning after one of its audit teams has a client cross-listed in the U.S. Among a group of companies that are only listed in China, we define those audited by Chinese audit firms that are not international Big 4 affiliates and have cross-listed clients as the treatment group, and companies audited by other audit firms as the control group. We find an improvement in audit quality for the treatment group after their audit firms have cross-listed client experience in the U.S., and this improvement is not attributable to the effect of joining an international accounting firm network, registration with the PCAOB, or the consolidation in the audit market. A survey of auditors corroborates these findings and provides evidence on audit firms' specific actions to facilitate learning. Our findings shed light on the benefits of auditing cross-listed clients in the U.S. and its positive externality on improving the audit quality of non-U.S.-listed companies in China.

Keywords: Cross-listing, Non-U.S.-listed foreign public companies, Audit quality, Positive externality Cross-listing, Non-U.S.-listed foreign public companies, Audit quality, Positive externality

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Wei and Luo, Yanxin and Ma, Zhiming and Wang, Rencheng, Organizational Learning and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Spillover Effects of Auditing Cross-Listed Clients* (July 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3620533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3620533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
J D Angrist , A B Krueger
Instrumental variables and the search for identification: From supply and demand to natural experiments
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2001
C M Angst , R Agarwal , V Sambamurthy , K Kelley
Social contagion and information technology diffusion: the adoption of electronic medical records in U.S. hospitals
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 8 , p. 1219 - 1241 Posted: 2010
L Argote , B Mcevily , R Reagans
Managing knowledge in organizations: An integrative framework and review of emerging themes
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 582 Posted: 2003
L Argote , E Miron-Spektor
Organizational learning: From experience to knowledge
Organization Science , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 1123 - 1137 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
RANK
299,879
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies