Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Auditors’ Going Concern Evaluations

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 13 May 2022

Ashleigh Bakke

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Sam M. Walton College of Business; Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting; University of Kansas

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: May 13, 2022

Abstract

The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is an audited disclosure that reflects management’s expectations regarding the future profitability of a company. Building on prior literature that establishes this disclosure as an indicator of future distress, we examine whether the valuation allowance is associated with auditors’ going concern evaluations. We find evidence that the existence and magnitude of the valuation allowance, as well as changes in the allowance, are positively associated with the likelihood that a company receives a first-time going concern opinion. We also find some evidence that valuation allowances are associated with reduced Type I and Type II going concern opinion misclassifications. Our results suggest that the information related to management’s plans and expectations that is reflected in the valuation allowance is incrementally relevant to auditors in their assessment of a company’s likelihood of failure.

Keywords: accounting for income taxes, ASC 740, deferred tax assets, going concern, valuation allowance

Suggested Citation:

Bakke, Ashleigh and Kubick, Thomas R. and Wilkins, Michael S., Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Auditors’ Going Concern Evaluations (May 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,583
RANK
138,390
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies