Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit fees and Corporate Innovation

2019 European Accounting Association (EAA) Annual Congress

37 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2020

Hyung Tae Kim

California State University, Fresno

Brandon Lee

Indiana University Northwest

Seungwon Lee

Pennsylvania State University Harrisburg

Sung-Jin Park

Korea Institute of Public Finance; Indiana University South Bend

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 27, 2019

Abstract

Purpose - Investigates the extent to which a client’s innovative effort affects the level of audit effort and whether the innovative-effort efficiency can attenuate the demand for greater audit effort associated with a client’s risky research-and-development (R&D) investments.

Design/methodology/approach - We treat R&D expenditure as an input measure and the patent obtained/cited in a given year as an output measure of a firm’s innovative effort. We estimate innovation efficiency as the number of patents granted to a firm in a given year, scaled by its R&D capital. As a proxy for audit effort, we use audit fees. Combining firm-year observations for fiscal years 2000 to 2010 from Compustat, patent data from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and Audit Analytics provided a sample of 11,646 observations from 2,051 unique firms.

Findings - Results confirm that a client firm’s strategic emphasis on corporate innovations may require greater audit effort. However, we find evidence that the efficiency of a firm’s innovative effort can attenuate the demand for heightened audit effort against risky innovative efforts, implying that the external auditor’s role is not necessarily detrimental to corporate innovation, which suggests that the efficiency of a firm’s innovation effort lowers the client business risk perceived by an auditor related to corporate innovation.

Originality/value - Contributes to a stream of literature identifying facilitators and impediments to corporate innovation. Our findings also complement an emerging body of literature on the effect of a firm’s business strategies on the auditor’s decision. Prior studies have not considered the input‒output conversion of a firm’s R&D expenditure as something that the firm values. By using the number of patents obtained and cited as an output measure of a firm’s innovative effort, we extend understanding of the influence of a firm’s business strategies on the level of audit effort.


Keywords: Corporate Innovation, Auditors, Research and Development, Risk Management

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hyung Tae and Lee, Brandon and Lee, Seungwon and Park, Sung-Jin, Audit fees and Corporate Innovation (May 27, 2019). 2019 European Accounting Association (EAA) Annual Congress, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3625360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
B P Commerford , D R Hermanson , R W Houston , M F Peters
Real earnings management: A threat to auditor comfort?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 39 - 56 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P R Demerjian , B Lev , M F Lewis , S E Mcvay
Managerial ability and earnings quality
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 463 - 498 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A C Eberhart , W F Maxwell , A R Siddique
An examination of long-term abnormal stock returns and operating performance following R&D increases
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 623 - 650 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J M Godfrey , J Hamilton
The impact of R&D intensity on demand for auditor services
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 55 - 93 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,617
RANK
334,743
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies