Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It’s a Matter of Style: The Role of Audit Firms and Audit Partners in Key Audit Matter Reporting

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 17 Aug 2023

Linette M. Rousseau

University of Houston, Bauer College of Business

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 12, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relative importance of audit firm versus partner decision styles in key audit matter (KAM) reporting. Standard-setters intended KAMs to increase the usefulness of the audit report by requiring the partner-led engagement team to disclose engagement-specific information about the most significant judgments they made during the audit. However, stakeholders expressed widespread concern that audit firms’ longstanding efforts towards standardization would result in generic KAMs at the audit firm level and provide partners little opportunity or incentive for engagement-specific reporting. We evaluate this high-stakes tension between standard setters’ goals for audit reporting and auditors’ deep-rooted practices by leveraging data from the UK, which has required partner identification since 2009 and expanded audit reports since 2013. We find that clients sharing the same partner receive KAMs that are ten percent more textually similar than clients with different partners. In contrast, clients sharing the same audit firm receive KAMs that are just two percent more textually similar than clients with different audit firms. This implies that partner decision styles are more important in influencing KAM outcomes than audit firm styles. Collectively, our results suggest that partners make unique KAM reporting judgments, countering concerns that audit firms’ efforts toward standardization will yield boilerplate KAMs. This evidence extends the literature on expanded audit reporting and partner decision styles and provides valuable insights into a contemporary issue in audit regulation with broader implications for understanding dynamics within the profession.

Keywords: audit firm, audit partner, decision style, expanded audit reporting, key audit matters, audit regulation.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Rousseau, Linette and Zehms, Karla M., It’s a Matter of Style: The Role of Audit Firms and Audit Partners in Key Audit Matter Reporting (June 12, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3625651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,460
RANK
34,178
27 Citations
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies