Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fees and Corporate Innovation

Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Hyung Tae Kim

California State University, Fresno

Seungwon Lee

Pennsylvania State University Harrisburg

Sung-Jin Park

Korea Institute of Public Finance; Indiana University South Bend

Brandon Lee

Indiana University Northwest

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 7, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the extent to which a client’s innovative effort affects the level of audit effort and whether the innovative-effort efficiency can attenuate the demand for greater audit effort associated with a client’s risky research-and-development (R&D) investments. We find that a client firm’s strategic emphasis on corporate innovations may require greater audit effort, but the efficiency of a firm’s innovative effort can attenuate the demand for heightened audit effort against risky, innovative efforts. Findings suggest that the external auditor does not always discourage corporate innovation as the efficiency of a firm’s innovation may lower the client business risk perceived by an auditor. Our contribution to a stream of literature is identifying facilitators and impediments to corporate innovation. Also, using the number of patents granted/cited as an output measure of a firm’s innovative effort, we extend understanding of the influence of a firm’s business strategies on the level of audit effort.

Keywords: Corporate innovation, Auditors, Research and development, Risk management

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hyung Tae and Lee, Seungwon and Park, Sung-Jin and Lee, Brandon, Audit Fees and Corporate Innovation (January 7, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies