Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Measures of an Audit Firm's Competitive Position in Local Markets Robust?

34 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Marek Kacer

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre (CMRC); Leeds University Business School (LUBS) - Accounting and Finance Division; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Economics in Bratislava

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Michael J. Peel

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Nick Wilson

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

Recent studies determining the effect of audit market competition on firm level audit fees have developed novel measures of an audit firm’s relative competitive position. Numan and Willekens (2012) find a relationship between audit fees and the ‘industry market share distance to the closest competitor’. Chu et al. (2018) provide evidence that suggests smaller incumbent auditors are pressured into offering lower fees when competing against a large local audit firm. These results are important to regulators and antitrust authorities that seek to understand the implications of a market dominated by a few large audit firms. We demonstrate that competition measures employed in these audit pricing studies are endogenous by construction and that their relationship with audit fees is due to ‘mathematical coupling’. A series of simulations demonstrate that the coefficients of local competitive position measures are subject to simultaneity bias. We employ the instrumental variable (IV) regression method to account for simultaneity bias. Using ‘strong’ instruments, our IV regression results indicate that local competition measures are unrelated to audit fees after controlling for simultaneity bias. Our findings have import for audit pricing studies where explanatory variables are constructed which contain contemporaneous audit fee components.

Keywords: Audit pricing, Competition measures, Endogenous variables, Mathematical coupling

Suggested Citation:

Kacer, Marek and Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Peel, Michael J. and Wilson, Nicholas, Are Measures of an Audit Firm's Competitive Position in Local Markets Robust? (June 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625140 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3625140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J P Archie
Mathematical Coupling: A Common Source of Error
Annals of Surgery , volume 193 , issue 3 , p. 296 - 303 Posted: 1981
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jenny , L Jiang
The Validity of Auditor Industry Specialization Measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K L Bills , D C Jeter , S E Stein
Auditor Industry Specialisation and Evidence of Cost Efficiencies in Homogenous Industries
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 5 , p. 1721 - 1754 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K L Bills , N M Stephens
Spatial Competition at the Intersection of the Large and Small Audit Firm Markets
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
636,031
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies