Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Fish, Small Pond: How In-Charge Auditors Engage with Technology-Based Audit Tools to Influence the Audit in Non-Global Network Firms

42 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020 Last revised: 16 Sep 2020

Annie L. Witte

Fairfield University - Charles F. Dolan School of Business

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

I investigate how in-charge auditors emerge as big fish within the smaller ponds of non-global network firms (NGNFs) (i.e., firms other than the “Global 7”) to engage in institutional work using technology-based audit tools (TBATs) to impact audit quality. Using semi-structured interviews through the lens of institutional theory, I identify factors associated with in-charges’ propensity to engage in institutional work, being actions that contribute to the development (i.e., creation), continuance (i.e., maintenance), and/or breach (i.e., disruption) of practice. Findings identify audit firm culture, engagement budgets, and training experiences as important antecedents to individuals’ ability to pursue institutional work and effect change. Evidence suggests auditors internalize the time-relevance of their actions differently, and these perspectives are predictive of the nature of the institutional work auditors pursue. Data also give rise to new process-theory research questions regarding audit firms’ technological cultures, trainings, auditor-client interactions, and ceremonial practices as promising research avenues.

Keywords: audit quality; institutional work; audit technology; audit tools

Suggested Citation:

Witte, Annie, Big Fish, Small Pond: How In-Charge Auditors Engage with Technology-Based Audit Tools to Influence the Audit in Non-Global Network Firms (August 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3627661 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3627661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Aburous
IFRS and institutional work in the accounting domain
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 62 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2019
Crossref
S Aghazadeh , M Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheya
Revealing oz: Audit firm partners' experiences with national office consultations Posted: 2019
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Crossref
CPA Horizons Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
418,383
2 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies