Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Auditor Independence Influenced by Non-Audit Services? A Stakeholder’s Viewpoint?

Ramzan, M., Ahmad, I. & Rafay, A. (2020). Is Auditor independence influenced by Non-audit services? A stakeholder’s viewpoint. Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Sciences, 14(1), 388-408.

23 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020 Last revised: 4 Mar 2021

Muhammad Ramzan

Hailey College of Commerce

Ishfaq Ahmed

Hailey College of Commerce

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: June 16, 2020

Abstract

The auditor may provide numerous services to their clients covering audit and non-audit services (NAS). These services have been considered as a combination of services offering varying results for client firms. The mixed results reported by past studies in measuring the relation between NAS and auditor independence had generated the need for further investigation. Moreover, the dearth of literary evidence from a developing country like Pakistan also created a need for such a study. Considering the gaps left unaddressed in past studies, the current study aims at investigating the possible relationship between NAS and auditor independence.

Data of the study was collected from three stakeholders of audit (i.e. accountants, finance managers, and internal auditors). Data collected through the questionnaire proved that various respondent groups have different opinions about the said relationship. It was observed that NAS was believed to have positive, negative, and no effects on auditor independence. Moreover, occupational level, experience and educational level of the respondents were also observed to have a significant bearing on the opinion about NAS and auditor independence relationships.

The changing dynamics of the audit profession with abridged trust in its services, caused by NAS, have created the need for investigation focusing on views of various stakeholders of such services. This study attempts to provide empirical evidence on the varied perspectives.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Internal auditors, Non-audit services, Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Ramzan, Muhammad and Ahmed, Ishfaq and Rafay, Abdul, Is Auditor Independence Influenced by Non-Audit Services? A Stakeholder’s Viewpoint? (June 16, 2020). Ramzan, M., Ahmad, I. & Rafay, A. (2020). Is Auditor independence influenced by Non-audit services? A stakeholder’s viewpoint. Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Sciences, 14(1), 388-408., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3628438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Abdul Wahab , E Zain , M Rahman , R
Political connections: A threat to auditor independence
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2015
M B Adams
Agency theory and the internal audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Crossref
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Al-Ajmi , S Saudangaram
Perceptions of auditors and financial statement users regarding auditor independence in Bahrain
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 130 - 160 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,926
RANK
107,104
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies