Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection of Corporate Frauds

8 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2020

Saikat Bhattacharya

O.P. Jindal Global University ; O.P. Jindal Global University

Date Written: June 17, 2020

Abstract

Corporate fraud is most commonly performed by taking the advantage of the sensitive & confidential information and also the valuable assets, using them to maximise the gains. There are many methods that help predict fraud before they occur. These activities are often hidden behind legitimate business transactions and exchanges to hide it from the authorities. This paper focuses on various tools which can be used to detect such activities how they are administered.

Fraud is defined under section 447 of the companies act 2013 which says that “fraud in relation to affairs of a company or a body corporate, includes any act, omission, concealment of any fact or abuse of position committed by any person or any other person with the connivance in any manner, with intent to deceive, to gain undue advantage from, or to injure the interests of, the company or its shareholders or its creditors or any other person, whether or not there is any wrongful gain or wrongful loss”

But in order to prevent fraud from happening, one must know what it is, what are its consequences, how they are committed and how can it be prevented. The information that we obtain from these exercises should be put back into the system so that the fraud prevention measures can implemented, and monitoring can be done to prevent a reoccurrence. The detection of them is directly related to their prevention. There are various methods for detecting fraud and reporting it to the authorities. Poor corporate governance and internal control are the mains reasons of frauds occurring, preventing them would ensure a healthy financial statement. “Inside a business firm, the corporate managers play a primary role for fraud prevention and detection withing a business firm but employees have an important role to play as well” . “Effective employee training, thorough screening and internal control, board oversight” . There many ways in which corporate fraud may be detected. They are, internal audit, external audit, whistle blowing, forensic assessment etc.


Keywords: Fraud, Company Law, Whistle Blowing, Forensic assesment, Internal Audit, External Audit, Finance, Corporate Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharya, Saikat and Bhattacharya, Saikat, Detection of Corporate Frauds (June 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3629175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3629175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
325,828
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies