Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques in Public Accounting Firm

International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 222-229.

8 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2020

Bambang Leo Handoko

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia, 11480

Ang Swat Lin Lindawati

Accounting Department, Faculty of Economics and Communication Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia

Mazlina Mustapha

Department of Accounting and Finance, Faculty of Economics and Management Universiti Putra Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Facing the industrial revolution 4.0, every profession in the world must improve, every professional workforce involved in it, must begin to add one skill that is computer literacy. This phenomenon certainly occurs also for the financial auditor profession. Auditors are required to no longer only carry out the audit process manually or traditionally but to use computerization. In auditing this is referred to as computer assisted audit techniques. Our research is a qualitative study, we use literature studies as secondary data and primary data collection techniques. Primary data collection is done by observation to public accounting firms and conducting interviews with auditors to find out how the application of audit software in their environment. Our interviews include: understanding, constraints faced, and the auditor's views regarding the audit software itself. In this study we obtained results regarding the advantages and disadvantages of the computer assisted audit technique and a review of its application in public accounting firms in Indonesia both the big four and the non big four. Our research can be a reference or reference for subsequent research in the field of audit and software.

Keywords: audit, software, industry, technique, computer, assisted

Suggested Citation:

Handoko, Bambang Leo and Lindawati, Ang Swat Lin and Mustapha, Mazlina, Application of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques in Public Accounting Firm (2020). International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 222-229., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3629047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
716
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
82,208
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies