Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust of the Crowd and Audit Pricing

54 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2020

Konan Chan

National Chengchi Unversity (NCCU) - Finance

Jianxin Cui

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Weiyu Kuo

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of International Business

Tse-Chun Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

Using a novel dataset that captures public perceptions of the trustworthiness of client firms by extracting and converting social media feeds into an index, we find that auditors charge higher fees for client firms with lower trustworthiness, as client firms with higher trustworthiness are less likely to incur lawsuits. This correlation is stronger for the shorter audit tenures, younger client firms, and more complex auditing practices after the enactment of the SOX Act. Our results are robust to:

(i) including firm or county fixed effects,

(ii) controlling for the internal control weaknesses and various corporate governance measures, and

(iii) adding the trust index constructed from financial news.

Our study highlights the role of the perceived trustworthiness of client firms in audit pricing decisions.

Keywords: audit pricing, trustworthiness, social media, natural language processing, textual analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G41, M14, M42, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Konan and Cui, Jianxin and Kuo, Weiyu and Lin, Tse-Chun, Trust of the Crowd and Audit Pricing (June 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,382
RANK
475,660
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies