Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Business Development Incentives to Audit Partner Independence: Evidence from The Propensity to Issue Modified Opinions to Group-affiliated Audit Clients

Posted: 16 Jul 2020 Last revised: 5 Feb 2021

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

We analyze a unique auditor independence threat stemming from audit partners’ incentives to secure new revenue streams using the context of audit clients belonging to business groups. Since a partner who issues a modified audit opinion (MAO) to a group-affiliated client risks losing not only that client, but also the opportunity to extend their audit services to other member companies, this incentive to attract future business may induce partners to compromise their independence. Consistent with expectations, we document that partners are less likely to issue MAOs to group-affiliated clients when other group members are relatively large (i.e., representing lucrative potential clients for the partners) than other group-affiliated clients, and this relation intensifies when the incumbent group-affiliated clients themselves are economically less important. We also find that partners who issue MAOs to group-affiliated clients underperform in attracting new clients from the same business group. Further, investors perceive that audit quality is higher in these partners’ non-group clients, reflecting that reputation protection forces discipline partners to resist the temptation to issue unwarranted clean opinions.

Keywords: Auditor independence; future business potential; modified audit opinions; business group-affiliated audit clients

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Jiang, Like and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Zhifeng, The Importance of Business Development Incentives to Audit Partner Independence: Evidence from The Propensity to Issue Modified Opinions to Group-affiliated Audit Clients (February 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3633931
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies