Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extensible Business Reporting Language and Its Impact on Financial Reporting and Auditing

Pacific Business Review International, 12(8), 35-46, 2020

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2020

M. L. Ashok

University of Mysore

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: June 24, 2020

Abstract

Rapid Advancement in Technology made the accounting and auditing environment more digitalized through initiating XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). XBRL is the innovative mode of preparing, presenting and communicating the business and financial information so as to cater to the need of various stakeholders. Present the study is in empirical nature with the objective of analyzing the perceived impact of the adoption of XBRLon financial reporting, auditing and also on the quality of financial information communicated. For this purpose data were collected from both primary and secondary sources and collected data is analyzed with the help of descriptive statistics, t-test and Levene's Independent Samples test and concluded that there is a perceived impact of XBRL adoption on Financial Reporting, Auditing and Quality of Financial Information.

Keywords: XBRL; Financial Reporting; Auditing; Quality of Financial Information.

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M43; M48

Suggested Citation:

Ashok, M. L. and N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Extensible Business Reporting Language and Its Impact on Financial Reporting and Auditing (June 24, 2020). Pacific Business Review International, 12(8), 35-46, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3634768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
O V Astafeva , E V Astafyev , E A Khalikova , T B Leybert , I A Osipova
XBRL Reporting in the Conditions of Digital Business Transformation
International Scientific Conference "Digital Transformation of the Economy: Challenges, Trends, New Opportunities , p. 373 - 381 Posted: 2019-04
Crossref
A A Baldwin , B S Trinkle
The impact of XBRL: A Delphi investigation
The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 17 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B H Cohen , R B Lea
Essentials of statistics for the social and behavioural sciences Posted: 2004
E E Cohen
The Need for and Issues Surrounding the S eamles s A u d it Tr ail. Wo r k in g P ap er Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
293,720
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies