Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Promoting Proactive Auditing Behaviors

48 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020 Last revised: 4 Aug 2023

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

In this paper, we introduce the construct of proactive auditing behaviors to the accounting literature and report the first experimental investigation of their antecedents. Regulators and practitioners agree that proactive behaviors are needed to consistently achieve high quality audit outcomes, but also that these behaviors are scarce. Drawing on theory from management, accounting, and psychology, we predict that an environmental factor (autonomy) and a dispositional factor (tacit knowledge) interact to increase a range of distinct proactive auditing behaviors. These behaviors involve responding to evidence that has out-of-task implications, coordinating with clients to acquire task-related evidence, and two forms of coaching junior auditors. As predicted, we find that auditors are more proactive when they have both higher autonomy and higher tacit knowledge than when they lack either or both of these factors. Our theory and findings inform academics, regulators, and practitioners about the types of work environments and policies that can promote auditor proactivity successfully.

Keywords: proactive behaviors, autonomy, tacit knowledge, regulatory focus, audit quality, coaching

Suggested Citation:

Peecher, Mark E. and Ricci, Michael and Zhou, Yuepin, Promoting Proactive Auditing Behaviors (July 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3636498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
J L Aaker , A Y Lee
I" seek pleasures and "We" avoid pains: The role of selfregulatory goals in information processing and persuasion
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 49 Posted: 2001
E Altiero
Prompting more relevant and reliable evidence ideation with a counterfactual mindset Posted: 2019-04-05
AICPA Statement on Quality Management Standards , issue 1 Posted: 2022
L M Andiola , J C Bedard
Delivering "tough message": Moderators of subordinate auditors' reactions to feedback
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 70 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,736
RANK
125,719
5 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies