Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Does the Auditor Say? Auditors’ Disclosures of Critical Audit Matters and Audit Fees

Accounting Horizons, forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2020 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Jeff Zeyun Chen

Texas Christian University

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether critical audit matter disclosures contain information about material misstatement risks that is priced in audit fees. We find that textual features of auditors’ risk descriptions and the types of risks identified capture fee-relevant information. Further, the results are incremental to other determinants of audit fees considered in prior research and to managements’ disclosures in the related notes to the financial statements. Overall, we provide evidence that auditors’ perceptions of audit risks revealed in the newly-expanded audit opinion capture information relevant for understanding audit pricing decisions.

Keywords: Audit opinion; audit fees; critical audit matters; audit risk.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jeff Zeyun and Nelson, Karen K. and Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng, What Does the Auditor Say? Auditors’ Disclosures of Critical Audit Matters and Audit Fees (September 30, 2023). Accounting Horizons, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3638540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3638540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
J Bédard , P Coram , R Espahbodi , T J Mock
Does recent academic research support changes to audit reporting standards? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Load more
1 Citations
Katharine D. Drake , Nathan C. Goldman , Stephen J. Lusch , Jaime J. Schmidt
Disclosure of Tax-Related Critical Audit Matters and Tax-Related Outcomes
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 26 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 1,130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,016
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,437
RANK
51,226
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies