Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Ethnicity and Salient Audit Phenomena

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

76 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2020 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Zvi Singer

HEC Montreal

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Date Written: December 30, 2022

Abstract

Motivated by ongoing dialog at the national level on racial (in)equality, we examine the relations between audit partner ethnicity (audit partners of Asian, Black, or Hispanic origin) and three salient audit phenomena. Specifically, we examine whether there is a difference in financial reporting quality between the clients of ethnic minority audit partners (EMAPs, hereafter) and those of White partners, whether EMAPs face a different work environment than their White counterparts, and how EMAPs are treated in the audit firm. We find that clients of EMAPs, on average, have earnings that are more predictive of future cash flows, have smaller unsigned discretionary accruals, and are less likely to receive a comment letter from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission than clients of White partners. We also find weak evidence that clients of EMAPs have more persistent earnings, lower signed discretionary accruals, and higher audit fees. We do not find evidence of differences in restatement likelihood between the clients of ethnic partners and those of White partners. Overall, these results provide some evidence that clients of EMAPs have higher financial reporting quality. Next, we find that, compared to White partners, EMAPs are more likely to work in offices that are smaller, earn lower audit fees, are non-Big 4, and have no prestigious clients. Finally, we find that ethnic minority partners are more likely to be in charge of engagements with clients whose top management (but not whose audit committee) has ethnic representation. We find no evidence that ethnic minority partners are less likely to be engaged with prestigious or important clients. However, we find that, following a financial restatement, ethnic minority partners are more likely than White audit partners to be replaced. Collectively, our findings suggest that even though EMAPs 1) tend to work in less desirable offices, 2) have a client alignment that is affected by ethnic representation in the client’s top management, 3) face more severe consequences after audit failure, they are associated with some properties of higher audit quality. This study is one of the first to broadly examine important aspects of the work of EMAPs. We believe that our findings will be of interest to audit firms, audit clients, other related parties, and society at large, especially given audit firms’ efforts to improve ethnic diversity.

Keywords: ethnicity; audit partner assignment; homophily; audit quality; work-related repercussion; minority

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Singer, Zvi and Zhang, Jing, Audit Partner Ethnicity and Salient Audit Phenomena (December 30, 2022). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3647321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3647321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founder-CEOs and firm performance
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , D Kapur , J Mchale
How do spatial and social proximity influence knowledge flows? Evidence from patent data
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 258 - 269 Posted: 2008
J Ahn , J Pittman , Z Wang , J Yu
The importance of partners' cultural backgrounds to clients' earnings comparability Posted: 2021
Trends in the supply of accounting graduates and demand for public accounting recruits Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
576
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,171
RANK
108,765
8 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies