Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Firm Hiring of Former PCAOB Personnel Improve Audit Quality?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper

53 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2020 Last revised: 18 Apr 2023

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jayanthi Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Steven Maex

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: April 16, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether employees of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) that are hired by large audit firms are associated with subsequent higher audit quality at these firms. Employees at the PCAOB acquire expertise related to the industry they regulate, the audit industry. We predict that this expertise, which we label “regulatory audit quality expertise,” would contribute positively to audit quality at audit firms particularly for clients with high misstatement risk. We find that regulatory audit quality expertise is associated with fewer client restatements, which are ex post indicators of high misstatement risk not properly addressed by the auditor (i.e., egregious audit quality issues). Further, along the continuum of audit quality, regulatory audit quality expertise is associated, for high-risk clients, with audit quality improvements reflected in lower discretionary accruals and more accurate internal control audit opinions. Our results are consistent with regulatory audit quality expertise provided by former PCAOB employees being beneficial for audit quality.

Keywords: Restatements, Discretionary Accruals, Revolving Door, Material Weaknesses, Internal Control Audits, ICFR, Human Capital

JEL Classification: L51, M41, M42, M45

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Jagan and Krishnan, Jayanthi and Maex, Steven, Does Audit Firm Hiring of Former PCAOB Personnel Improve Audit Quality? (April 16, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, George Mason University School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3648214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3648214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The Effects of PCAOB Inspections on Auditor-Client Relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial Statement Errors: Evidence from the Distributional Properties of Financial Statements Numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection Process -Preliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,171
RANK
163,472
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies