Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Market Competition on Audit Quality and Pricing in a Non-Big 4 Market

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Aug 2020 Last revised: 11 Aug 2020

Masoud Azizkhani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Kourosh Amirkhani

San Jose State University

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

Audit markets are generally characterised as concentrated markets as the result of mergers and acquisitions among audit firms. Audit scandals around the world have raised concerns about whether concentration in the market for audit services has an adverse impact on competition and audit quality. We examine the impact of increasing competition on audit pricing and audit quality in an emerging market where regulatory policies have resulted in increased competition (less market concentration) in the audit market and Big 4 auditors are banned. In addition, we extend our analyses using a sample from other developing audit markets where the audit markets are becoming more concentrated rather than less concentrated. We find that lower levels of audit market concentration measured using the Herfindahl index are associated with lower audit fees, a lower likelihood of issuing modified audit opinion, and higher levels of abnormal accruals. These results suggest that increased competition in audit markets in developing economies generate audit fee pressure, which negatively affects audit quality. We provide evidence on the impact of competition in audit markets in developing economies on audit pricing and audit quality. Our findings inform regulators about the consequences of increasing competition in audit markets in developing economies.

Keywords: Audit Market Competition, Audit Fees; Audit Quality, Developing Economies

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Azizkhani, Masoud and Sami, Heibatollah and Amirkhani, Kourosh and Monroe, Gary S., The Effect of Audit Market Competition on Audit Quality and Pricing in a Non-Big 4 Market (September 10, 2019). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3648622
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies