Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework for Using Robotic Process Automation for Audit Tasks

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

77 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2020 Last revised: 6 Jul 2021

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Justin Pawlowski

Independent

Nathan Waddoups

University of Denver

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 5, 2021

Abstract

The ability to automate tasks and processes using robotic process automation (RPA)—or the development of bots—is receiving significant attention in accounting. Auditors often struggle to know what tasks to automate and how to prioritize bot development. Drawing upon socio-technical systems theory and using a design science methodology, we develop and validate a three-step evaluation framework to assist auditors as they decide what activities to automate. We validate this framework using interviews, surveys of experienced internal and external auditors, and two case studies. By developing and validating our framework through the lens of socio-technical systems theory, we also provide several insights that help explain the mixed findings in prior research regarding the effectiveness and adoption of emerging technologies in audit. The implications of our study yield many opportunities for future research in the areas of RPA and emerging technologies in audit.

Keywords: Robotic process automation, RPA, bots, design science, bot-evaluation framework, automation, digital labor, digital auditing

JEL Classification: m40, m41, m42, m49

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Pawlowski, Justin and Waddoups, Nathan and Wood, David A., A Framework for Using Robotic Process Automation for Audit Tasks (July 5, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3651028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3651028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A Field Study of Control System "Redesign": The Impact of Institutional Processes on Strategic Choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 596 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal auditprovided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for Flexibility and Efficiency: A Field Study of Management Control Systems in a Restaurant Chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Ahrens
Management Controls that Anchor other Organizational Practices
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 86 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,069
RANK
15,408
2 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies