Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Uncertainty Measure - CAM

NYU Stern School of Business

Posted: 10 Aug 2020

Julia Klevak

Wellington Management Company

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Duo Selina Pei

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Kate Suslava

Bucknell University Freeman College of Management

Date Written: July 23, 2020

Abstract

In contrast to past auditor opinions, which were largely unqualified and uniformly written, a new disclosure requirement expands auditors’ opinions to include a description of Critical Audit Matters (“CAMs”) and the audit steps necessary to form an opinion about them. The expanded disclosure provides substantially more information about the areas of financial reporting that auditors consider most uncertain. Using a comprehensive sample of initial CAM disclosures in the 10-K filings for the period of August 2019-May 2020, we find that a larger number of CAMs, a greater number of required auditing procedures and more wordy and extensive CAM discussions are negatively associated with stock returns immediately around the 10-K filings. We also document significantly more negative analyst earnings revisions for firms whose auditors report more CAMs and provide more verbose CAM disclosures.

Keywords: critical audit matters, stock returns, textual analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Klevak, Julia and Livnat, Joshua and Pei, Duo and Suslava, Kate, A New Uncertainty Measure - CAM (July 23, 2020). NYU Stern School of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3659633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3659633
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies