Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Personnel Quality, Audit Risk, and Auditor Responses

Gul, F. A., B. Lin, Z. Yang, M. Zhang, and H. Zhu. 2024. Accounting personnel quality, audit risk, and auditor responses. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 43(1), 125-149.

48 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2020 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Ferdinand A Gul

Deakin University

Bin Lin

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Haoran Zhu

Southern University of Science and Technology; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 4, 2024

Abstract

This study draws on human capital theory to measure the quality of accounting personnel based on their education level and investigate whether the education level of the client firm’s accounting personnel affects auditors’ assessment of audit risk by examining audit outcomes. It shows that auditors charge higher fees and are more likely to make audit adjustments for companies whose accounting personnel have a lower level of education. The relationship between the education level of accounting personnel and audit fees (audit adjustments) is robust to an instrumental variable model, an entropy balancing approach, and a difference-in-differences analysis. Audit firms strategically assign more experienced partners to audit companies whose accounting personnel’s average education levels are relatively low. Taken together, these findings suggest that the education level of clients’ accounting personnel affects auditors’ assessment of audit risk and audit outcomes.

Keywords: Human capital, accounting personnel, audit risk, audit fee, audit adjustment

JEL Classification: M40, M42, J01, J24

Suggested Citation:

Gul, Ferdinand A and Lin, Bin and Yang, Zhifeng and Zhang, Min and Zhu, Haoran, Accounting Personnel Quality, Audit Risk, and Auditor Responses (March 4, 2024). Gul, F. A., B. Lin, Z. Yang, M. Zhang, and H. Zhu. 2024. Accounting personnel quality, audit risk, and auditor responses. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 43(1), 125-149., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3665535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3665535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,124
RANK
134,863
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies