Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Importance of Auditor Characteristics versus Client Factors in Explaining Audit Quality

(Forthcoming) Cameran M., Campa D., Francis J., The relative importance of auditor characteristics versus client factors in explaining audit quality, Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance.

42 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Date Written: August 10, 2020

Abstract

UK listed firms are used to investigate if auditor attributes (fixed effects for audit firms, audit offices, and audit partners) add incrementally to baseline models with client controls in explaining audit outcomes (earnings quality and going concern reports). We document that accounting firm fixed effects add significantly to baseline models. To the extent an accounting firm can standardize its audits, there should be no differences across engagements. However, we find significant inter-office differences, and also significant inter-partner differences within offices. R-square analyses, hierarchical linear models, LASSO regressions, and R-square decomposition analyses all show that partners are the most important auditor-related characteristic. To better understand the cause of partner variation, we test a set of partner demographic variables (in lieu of partner fixed effects), but we find that they explain little variation, once we control for firm and office differences. We conclude that partner variation is important in explaining audit outcomes, but understanding the causes requires going beyond existing publicly-available demographic data.

Keywords: Accounting firms, Audit offices, Engagement partners, Earnings quality, Going concern reports, Restatements

JEL Classification: C33, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Campa, Domenico and Francis, Jere R., The Relative Importance of Auditor Characteristics versus Client Factors in Explaining Audit Quality (August 10, 2020). (Forthcoming) Cameran M., Campa D., Francis J., The relative importance of auditor characteristics versus client factors in explaining audit quality, Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
113,317
5 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies