Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Failed Auditors Receive Lower Audit Fees from Continuing Engagements?

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

Posted: 25 Sep 2020

Kam Wah Lai

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Ferdinand A Gul

Deakin University

Date Written: August 11, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates whether a failed auditor suffers from reduced audit fees from clients who continue to employ him and whether the reduced audit fees are more pronounced when the failed auditor is not a market leader. The subject audit firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (Deloitte), Hong Kong, issued a clean audit opinion to a client on its 1997 financial statements which were subsequently found to have accounting errors because of fraud and other irregularities by KPMG. Consequently, Deloitte resigned from the engagement and withdrew its audit report for the client. Results show that Deloitte had more negative change in audit fees than other auditors after the event, and the reduced audit fees were more pronounced when Deloitte was not the market leader. Additional tests suggest that Deloitte did not reduce its audit quality after the event.

Keywords: Audit fees, audit failure, continuing engagements, auditor reputation, clean opinions

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Kam Wah and Gul, Ferdinand A, Do Failed Auditors Receive Lower Audit Fees from Continuing Engagements? (August 11, 2020). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3671220
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies