Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Auditor Industry Specialization - Evidence from a Structural Model

The Accounting Review (forthcoming)

54 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2020 Last revised: 21 Jul 2022

Qiang Guo

University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Aiyong Zhu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accounting

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the value of auditor industry specialization. In the first step, we use a discrete choice model to derive the first-order demand for auditor industry specialization. Our results reveal that clients have a general preference for auditor industry specialization, relating to both audit firm and audit office specialization. Further, we observe that specializations at the audit firm and audit office are substitutes. We also find that larger and more complex clients have a stronger demand for specialization at the audit office level. In the second step, we use the results from the discrete choice model to quantify the value of auditor industry specialist for clients. We find that the overall value of industry specialization aggregated across all clients is 5.2 million US Dollars (0:36% of audit fees) and that industry specialization at the firm (office) level is decisive for auditor choice in 4% (6%) of all cases.

Keywords: auditor industry specialization, auditor demand, discrete choice model, counterfactual analysis

JEL Classification: M42, M48, L11, L84

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Qiang and Koch, Christopher and Zhu, Aiyong, The Value of Auditor Industry Specialization - Evidence from a Structural Model (December 15, 2021). The Accounting Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3673987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3673987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,700
RANK
66,201
6 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies