Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence

Journal of Business Ethics, 2020

48 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2020 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Tarek Abdelfattah

Portsmouth Business School

Mohamed Elmahgoub

Southampton Business School - Department of Accounting; Mansoura University - Department of Accounting

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: August 19, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates whether audit partner gender is associated with the extent of auditor disclosure and the communication style regarding risks of material misstatements that are classified as key audit matters (KAMs). Using a sample of UK firms during the 2013–2017 period, our results suggest that female audit partners are more likely than male audit partners to disclose more KAMs with more details after controlling for both client and auditor attributes. Furthermore, female audit partners are found to use a less optimistic tone and provide less readable audit reports, compared to their male counterparts, suggesting that behavioral variances between female and male audit partners may have significant implications on their writing style. Therefore, this study offers new insights about the role played by audit partner gender on extended audit reporting. Our findings have important implications for audit firms, investors, policymakers and governments in relation to the development, implementation and enforcement of gender diversity.

Keywords: Auditor gender; key audit matters; gender differences; extended audit reporting; tone; readability; UK

Suggested Citation:

Abdelfattah, Tarek and Elmahgoub, Mohamed and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence (August 19, 2020). Journal of Business Ethics, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3677014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Key audit matters: unlocking the secrets of the audit
ACCA Posted: 2018
J Alderman
Does auditor gender influence auditor liability? Exploring the impact of the crime congruency effect on jurors' perceptions of auditor negligence
Advances in accounting , volume 38 , p. 75 - 87 Posted: 2017
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
444,235
21 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies