Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Emphasizing Management Bias Decrease Auditors’ Sensitivity to Measurement Imprecision?

Accounting, Organizations and Society 88 (January 2021)

64 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2020 Last revised: 1 Feb 2021

Ben W. Van Landuyt

University of Arizona

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

Both management bias and measurement imprecision threaten the accurate reporting of complex accounting estimates, yet audit policymakers and practitioners often place a strong emphasis on bias. I examine whether directing auditors’ attention towards management bias can come at the expense of insufficient auditor sensitivity to measurement imprecision, potentially threatening overall audit quality. My primary investigation, Study 1, finds that when managers’ explicit incentives to bias financial reports are relatively weaker, an imbalanced emphasis on bias causes auditor-like participants in a stylized setting to “lower their guard” to a greater extent than when environmental factors place a more balanced emphasis on bias and imprecision. Study 2 indicates that an imbalanced emphasis on imprecision does not similarly distract auditors from bias. Study 3 utilizes a more contextually rich setting and demonstrates that an imbalanced emphasis on bias prompts even professional auditors to neglect imprecision. Accordingly, this paper suggests that a balanced emphasis on both management bias and measurement imprecision can mitigate negative consequences of auditors focusing on the former and neglecting the latter.

Keywords: management bias, measurement imprecision, accounting estimates, audit quality, risk, experimental economics, judgement and decision-making

JEL Classification: C92, D81, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Van Landuyt, Ben W., Does Emphasizing Management Bias Decrease Auditors’ Sensitivity to Measurement Imprecision? (August 1, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society 88 (January 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3680716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3680716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
B Bratten , R Jennings , C M Schwab
The accuracy of disclosures for complex estimates: Evidence from reported stock option fair values. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 52 , p. 32 - 49 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J F Brazel , T D Carpenter , J G Jenkins
Auditors' use of brainstorming in the consideration of fraud: Reports from the field
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1273 - 1301 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K W Braun
The disposition of audit-detected misstatements: An examination of risk and reward factors and aggregation effects
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 99 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S E Bonner , G B Sprinkle
The effects of monetary incentives on effort and task performance: Theories, evidence, and a framework for research. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 27 , p. 303 - 345 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
RANK
588,428
4 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies