Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In the Era of Audit Data Analytics, What’s Happened to Audit Sampling?

49 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2020 Last revised: 13 Sep 2022

Patricia Wellmeyer

UC Irvine/The Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

Given the increasing focus on audit data analytics, if and how auditors rely on sampling techniques in gathering assurance is an important unexplored question. Based on extensive interviews with 30 practicing Big 4 auditors, this study provides important insights on the current sampling practices of auditors. Findings indicate that despite firms’ increasing investment in data technologies, auditors significantly rely on sample-based tests in their assurance plans and especially in testing revenue and internal controls. Auditors cite fear of inspection findings and lack of clarity from regulators/firms on testing full populations, cross border data usage, and independence issues as driving this reliance. In applying sampling, while we find auditors’ use of firm provided sampling software/tables has helped standardize sampling judgments, lack of auditor education on underlying sampling constructs have led to deficiencies in the evaluation of statistical samples. Findings also reveal challenges in the development of integrated and multi-location sampling plans.

Keywords: Audit Sampling, Audit Quality, Integrated Audits, Multi-Location Engagements, Data Analytics

Suggested Citation:

Wellmeyer, Patricia, In the Era of Audit Data Analytics, What’s Happened to Audit Sampling? (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3690569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Firm's System of Quality Control
Statement on Quality Control Standards , issue 8 Posted: 2010
R D Allen , R J Elder
A longitudinal investigation of auditor error projection decisions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 69 - 84 Posted: 2005
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Big Data and Analytics in the Modern Audit Engagement: Research Needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
RANK
213,875
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies