Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revealing Oz: Institutional Work Shaping Auditors’ National Office Consultations

65 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

Mary Kate Dodgson

Lehigh University

Yoon Ju Kang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

Date Written: September 14, 2020

Abstract

National office consultations (NOCs) are a mechanism intended to enhance audit quality, consistent with the logic of professionalism inherent in the audit profession. Yet, research indicates that the competing logic of commercialism has become institutionalized in audit firms. We examine how the coexisting and conflicting logics of professionalism and commercialism manifest themselves in the current NOC dynamic. Specifically, we interview 22 highly experienced Big 4 audit firm partners to investigate how key actors engage in institutional work that creates, maintains, and disrupts the influence of professionalism and commercialism in NOC practices. We observe a swing of the pendulum: in the wake of SOX, audit firms adopted professionalism-based practices which involved creating a more authoritative, “Oz”-like national office identity; while in recent years, key actors’ institutional work reconfigured NOC practices and placed a renewed focus on commercialism. Our findings bring to light a number of implications and opportunities for future research.

Keywords: National office consultations; professionalism; commercialism; institutional work; auditor-client relationship; interview method

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Dodgson, Mary Kate and Kang, Yoon Ju and Peytcheva, Marietta, Revealing Oz: Institutional Work Shaping Auditors’ National Office Consultations (September 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3692581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Aicpa
Conceptual framework for AICPA independence standards. ET Section 100.01 Posted: 2006
Aicpa
A firm's system of quality control
Aicpa
Using the work of an auditor's specialist. AU-C Section 620
J E Boritz , N Kochetova , L Robinson , C Wong
Auditors' and specialists' views about the use of specialists during an audit
Behavioral Research in Accounting Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
556,623
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies