Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Anticipation of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2020 Last revised: 8 Jan 2023

Christian Friedrich

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Nicolas Pappert

Technical University of Darmstadt

Reiner Quick

Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: September 7, 2022

Abstract

Researchers and regulators regularly debate whether mandatory audit firm rotation affects audit quality. Theoretically, rotation might improve auditor independence but impair competence. In 2014, the European Commission mandated audit firm rotation for public-interest entities, starting from 2020 for non-financial firms. However, any auditor change in the transition period could already be interpreted in light of the upcoming mandatory rotation regime, consistent with anecdotal evidence on such interpretations. These changes provide a unique setting, because auditors have strong incentives to build a reputation for high-quality audits when choosing to participate in the market for rotations during the transition period. Using a balanced panel of 287 German firms and data from 2014 through 2019, we hypothesize and find lower discretionary accruals, abnormal working capital accruals, and total accruals in the first year after rotation. This effect is restricted to smaller public companies.

Keywords: Mandatory audit firm rotation; auditor change; audit quality; discretionary accruals; abnormal working capital accruals; total accruals; earnings management; audit report lag; audit fees.

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Friedrich, Christian and Pappert, Nicolas and Quick, Reiner, The Anticipation of Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality (September 7, 2022). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3693129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3693129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Accountancy Europe
Definition of Public Interest Entities in Europe. State of play after the implementation of the 2014 Audit Reform Posted: 2019
der Abschlussprüferaufsichtsstelle beim Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle (APAS) Posted: 2017
Inspektionen. Berufsaufsicht. Marktbeobachtung. Aufsicht über die Wirtschaftsprüferkammer. Internationale Zusammenarbeit Posted: 2016
der Abschlussprüferaufsichtsstelle beim Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle (APAS) Posted: 2018
Load more
3 Citations
Christian Friedrich , Reiner Quick , Florian Schmidt
Auditor‐provided non‐audit services and perceived audit quality: Evidence from the cost of equity and debt capital
International Journal of Auditing , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 388 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Florian Federsel
Fresh-Look Effect of Audit Firm and Audit Partner Rotations? Evidence from European Key Audit Matters
International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming · 58 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ines Simac , Yuhang Zhu
The Implications of a Non-Audit Services Blacklist and Fee-Cap Provision on Audit and Capital Market Dynamics
JPP-D-24-00447 · 69 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,972
RANK
69,090
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies