Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB Inspections and Audit Fees: An Analysis of Inspection Rounds of Small Audit Firms

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

58 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Lei Zou

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: September 16, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates the impact on audit pricing of PCAOB inspection outcomes on the quality control systems of small audit firms. Quality control deficiencies (QCDs) provide a strong signal about audit quality, which is expected to lead to price changing. We first document that audit fees in the pre-inspection period were higher for small audit firms without QCDs, implying that quality differences were already partially known and priced in the market. Next, we find evidence that in the post-inspection period audit fees further increase for firms without QCDs, while there is limited evidence for fee increases for firms with remediated QCDs, suggesting changes in audit firm reputation. Interestingly, we do not find support for fee changes for audit firms with disclosed quality control deficiencies. Finally, the magnitude of change in audit fees decreases over time. Collectively, these findings contribute to our understanding of audit quality differences amongst small audit firms and the functioning of the small audit firm market.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections; audit fees; quality control deficiencies; small audit firms

Suggested Citation:

Vanstraelen, Ann and Zou, Lei, PCAOB Inspections and Audit Fees: An Analysis of Inspection Rounds of Small Audit Firms (September 16, 2020). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3694118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection ProcessPreliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
891
RANK
653,956
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies