Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Can’t Get There from Here: The Influence of an Audit Partner’s Prior Non-Public Accounting Experience on Audit Outcomes

64 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2020 Last revised: 7 Dec 2021

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2021

Abstract

We examine the importance of audit partners’ prior non-public accounting experience (hereafter, “industry experience”) to audit outcomes. We conducted 20 (nine) semi-structured interviews of audit partners with (without) industry experience. These interviews shed light on industry-experienced partners’ career path choices, perceptions of the challenges and benefits stemming from industry experience, and perceptions of how this experience influences their current audit work. Grounded in theory and the results of these interviews, we empirically examine using a unique hand-collected dataset whether audit partners with industry experience conduct higher quality and more efficient audits. Our evidence implies that industry experience is associated with both higher audit quality and greater efficiency. In additional analyses, we examine the influence of potential mechanisms for these observed associations and find some evidence that the nature and timing of this experience matters. Specifically, actual first-hand experience in major oversight positions among boomerang auditors plays an integral role in the quality of the audits that these partners deliver, while experience in a major oversight position or specialized industry in which the partner audits translates into greater efficiencies.

Keywords: audit partner industry experience; boomerangs; audit quality; audit partners; audit efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lisic, Ling Lei and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Seidel, Timothy A. and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, You Can’t Get There from Here: The Influence of an Audit Partner’s Prior Non-Public Accounting Experience on Audit Outcomes (November 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3694022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3694022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
E C Altiero , Y J Kang , M E Peecher
Motivated perspective taking: Why prompting auditors to take an investor's perspective makes them treat identified audit differences as less material
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2021
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of mid-level managers within the audit firm Posted: 2021
J Badal , S Balsam , E Bartov , C Marquardt
Accruals management, investor sophistication, and equity valuation: Evidence from 10-Q filings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 987 - 1012 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Christophe Van Linden , Marie-Laure Vandenhaute , Aleksandra Zimmerman
Audit Firm Employee Turnover: Implications for Audit Quality
52 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 14 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 1,355
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
308,936
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies