Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Audit Matters, Cross Listings and Trading Volume: Evidence from Emerging Markets

Posted: 24 Nov 2020

Haiyan Zhou

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Zhiying Hu

University of Science and Technology Beijing - Dongling School of Economics and Management

Date Written: September 22, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the market reaction to the disclosure of critical audit matters (CAM) in terms of trading volumes and the effect of cross-listings on such a reaction in the emerging markets of China. We find that the first time CAM disclosures increase auditor report’s value as there are significant and negative abnormal trading volumes for firms disclosing CAMs. Such results are significant for companies listed only within the domestic exchanges. The alleviation of information asymmetry and the improvement of audit quality both play significant roles in investors’ reaction to the CAM disclosure. Overall, this study supplements the empirical studies on CAMs, and have implications for accounting firms, investors and other stakeholders in China and other emerging markets.

Keywords: Critical Audit Matters (CAMs), trading volume, cross-listing, information asymmetry, audit quality

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Haiyan and Sami, Heibatollah and Hu, Zhiying, Critical Audit Matters, Cross Listings and Trading Volume: Evidence from Emerging Markets (September 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3697579
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies