Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Capacity and the Demand for Audit Quality

Accounting and Business Research 52 (1): 1-37.

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-129

53 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2020 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Pingui Rao

Jinan University - Management School

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 3, 2020

Abstract

Prior research documents that financial capacity could be positively or negatively associated with the demand for audit quality. We re-examine this relation using changes in local real estate prices as exogenous shocks to corporate financial capacity. Using auditor size, auditor industry specialization, and auditor fees as measures of audit quality, we find robust evidence that an increase (decrease) in financial capacity significantly reduces (increases) the demand for audit quality, and that this relation is more pronounced when firms are more financially constrained, when external monitoring by institutional investors and financial analysts is weaker, and when there is more negative news about real estate price changes. Our study enriches the related literature by describing a more complete and dynamic relationship between audit quality and financial capacity.

Keywords: Audit Quality; Financial Capacity; Real Estate; Financial Constraint

JEL Classification: G12; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J. and Rao, Pingui and Yue, Heng, Financial Capacity and the Demand for Audit Quality (October 3, 2020). Accounting and Business Research 52 (1): 1-37., Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-129, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3700648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
K Balakrishnan , J E Core , R S Verdi
The relation between reporting quality and financing and investment: Evidence from changes in financial capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
370,049
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies