Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Auditors’ Rotation on Audit Quality of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

35 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 3, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this study was to ascertain the effect of auditors rotation on audit quality with a focus on quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria from 2008-2017. Ex-post facto research design was adopted. Eleven banks were purposively selected amongst the quoted fifteen deposit money banks in Nigeria as at 31st December, 2017. This study made use of secondary data obtained from fact books, annual reports and account of selected banks under study. The panel data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation and simple regression analysis. The result of this study revealed that audit tenure has a significant effect on audit firm size, audit committee size and audit fee. The study recommends inter alia that auditor-client relationship should not exceed 3 years, because the auditor may develop close relationship with the client and become more likely to act in favour of management, resulting in reduced objectivity and audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Rotation, Audit Tenure, Audit Committee Size, Audit Fee

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Auditors’ Rotation on Audit Quality of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (July 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Prof , Seth Accra , Jaja
Otuoke, Bayelsa StateGuest Lecturer at Prof. Pita Efiofor Annual Frontier
Management Sciences/International Conference
Abraham Dr , Nwankwo
Keynote Speaker at the Conference -Former DirectorGeneral, Debt Management Office (DMO)
Isaac Mr , Oforoafor
Lead Paper Presenter at Conference, Director of Communications, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)
Patrick L Prof , Akpan
Department of Business, Administration, Faculty of Management Sciences
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
RANK
151,526
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies