Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality Determinants: Evidence from Quoted Health Care Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 7, No. 4, October 2017, pp. 216–231

16 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 3, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the determinants of audit quality with a focus on healthcare firms listed on the floor of Nigeria Stock Exchange from 2010-2016. This study made use of secondary data obtained from fact books, annual reports and account of selected healthcare firms under study. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation, Ordinary Least Square (OLS) and Granger causality test with the aid of E-view 9.0. The result of this study revealed that there is a positive and statistically significant relationship between audit independence, audit tenure, audit firm size and audit quality of healthcare firms listed on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange at 5% level of significance. The study recommended among others that Audit firms should ensure that their staff are independent as this is likely to enhance audit quality.

Keywords: Audit report, audit quality, audit tenure

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Audit Quality Determinants: Evidence from Quoted Health Care Firms in Nigeria (October 3, 2017). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 7, No. 4, October 2017, pp. 216–231, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
M F C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH International Journal of Business and Management Science , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
S B Adeyemi , O Okpala , E L Dabor
Factors affecting audit quality in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 20 , p. 198 - 209 Posted: 2012
N N Amahalu , M F C Abiahu , J C Obi
Comparative analysis of computerised accounting system and manual accounting system of quoted microfinance banks in Nigeria
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 30 - 43 Posted: 2017
S B Adeyemi , T O Fagbemi
Audit quality, corporate governance and firm characteristics in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
RANK
86,861
3 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Capital Markets - Risk eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies