Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Audit Quality on Financial Performance of Quoted Conglomerates in Nigeria

International Journal of Management Studies and Social Science Research, Volume 2, Issue 4

12 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 3, 2020

Abstract

This study ascertained the effect of audit quality on the financial performance of quoted conglomerates in Nigeria from 2010-2019. Specifically, this study determined the effect of audit committee size, audit committee independence, and audit committee financial expertise on return on assets. Panel data were used in this study, which was obtained from the annual reports and accounts of six (6) sampled quoted conglomerates for the periods 2010-2019. Ex-Post Facto research design was employed. Inferential statistics using the Pearson correlation coefficient and Panel least square regression analysis were applied to test the hypotheses of the study. The results showed that audit committee size, audit committee independence, and audit committee financial expertise have a significant positive effect on return on assets at 5% level of significance respectively. The study recommended amongst others that conglomerates in Nigeria should ensure strict compliance with the provisions of Companies and Allied Matters act (CAMA) of having six members of equal representation; three shareholders and three directors.

Keywords: Audit Quality, ROA, Audit Committee Financial Expertise

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Audit Quality on Financial Performance of Quoted Conglomerates in Nigeria (July 3, 2020). International Journal of Management Studies and Social Science Research, Volume 2, Issue 4 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2015
Crossref
N N Amahalu , B O Ezechukwu
Determinants of audit quality: Evidence from deposit money banks listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 130 Posted: 2017
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi
Effect of auditors' rotation on audit quality of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Faculty of Management Sciences
International Conference Proceedings , p. 467 - 479 Posted: 2019
N N Amahalu , P U Egolum , J C Obi
Effect of e-accounting systems on financial performance of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria. Faculty of Management Sciences
International Conference Proceedings , p. 437 - 449 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,429
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,903
RANK
7,844
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies