Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Art of Conversation: The Expanded Audit Report

University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3709059

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3709059

59 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2020

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 10, 2020

Abstract

The new generation of expanded audit reports includes disclosures about significant matters in a company’s financial reporting and its audit. These disclosures are a landmark change in auditors’ responsibility to provide information to the public. I examine expanded reports in various jurisdictions, why they became mandatory, what is the evidence from their implementation, and whether they have fulfilled the expectations of regulators and other stakeholders. Expanded reports are intended to increase the information content and usefulness of audit opinions, to increase external monitoring of auditors and management, and to foster a more open conversation between auditors and users of financial reporting. However, existing regulatory requirements, conflicting auditors’ incentives to provide new information, and evidence from the expanded reports’ implementation call into question whether these objectives have been met. It is my hope that expanded reports are only a first step towards enhanced auditor reporting.

Keywords: auditor reports, expanded reports, key audit matters, critical audit matters, disclosure regulation

JEL Classification: M42, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Minutti-Meza, Miguel, The Art of Conversation: The Expanded Audit Report (October 10, 2020). University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3709059, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3709059, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3709059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3709059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K Asbahr , K Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Ann G. Backof , Kendall O. Bowlin , Brian Matthew Goodson
The Importance of Clarification of Auditors’ Responsibilities Under the New Audit Reporting Standards
Pages: 45 Posted: 6 Jun 2014 Last revised: 27 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Banham
Critical audit matters coming into focus: As public company auditors prepare to deliver new information in auditors' reports, firms need to develop consistent processes for determining what should be disclosed
Journal of Accountancy , volume 226 , issue 4 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,631
RANK
30,739
37 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Miami School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies