Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward an Understanding of the Antecedents to the Demand for Assurance

Hampton, C., S.G. Sutton, V. Arnold, and D. Khazanchi, Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward an Understanding of the Antecedents to the Demand for Assurance. Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-050

Posted: 23 Oct 2020

Clark Hampton

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Deepak Khazanchi

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

Recognizing the need for effective cyber risk management processes across the supply chain, the AICPA issued a new SOC in March 2020 for assuring cyber supply chain risk management (C-SCRM) processes. This study examines supply chain relationship factors and cyber risk issues to better understand the demand for C-SCRM assurance. Resource Advantage Theory of Competition provides the conceptual foundation for assessing the dual drivers of relationship building and cyber risk management on demand for assurance. We use a field survey to collect data from 205 professionals enabling evaluation of the complex relationships in the theoretical model. Results support all hypotheses, provide satisfactory model fit, and support the underlying theory. Trust, power imbalances and cyber supply chain risk all positively influence the demand for assurance over C-SCRM processes, suggesting assurance is a desirable process for addressing the three greatest inhibitors of collaborative supply chain relationships. Two new constructs are also introduced in the research — a complex 49 item measure for assessing cyber supply chain risk across the technical, operational and strategic levels, along with a more traditional multi-item construct for assessing the a priori demand for assurance. This study expands the literature on cyber assurance by auditors and elaborates on overall supply chain processes that help drive value from auditors providing such assurance.

Keywords: Cyber Risk Management, Supply Chain Risk Management, Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management, Cyber Assurance, Voluntary Assurance, SOC Reports

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hampton, Clark and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G. and Arnold, Vicky and Khazanchi, Deepak, Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward an Understanding of the Antecedents to the Demand for Assurance (October 1, 2020). Hampton, C., S.G. Sutton, V. Arnold, and D. Khazanchi, Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward an Understanding of the Antecedents to the Demand for Assurance. Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-050, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3713423
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies