Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accurate Fraud Risk Assessment on Audit Professionals’ Judgments of Auditor Performance in Cases of Undetected Fraud: Evidence of Shifting Standards

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3716630

40 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2020

Kamber D. Vittori

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Andrew Reffett

Miami University of Ohio

Aaron F. Zimbelman

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 21, 2020

Abstract

We provide theory and experimental evidence that, in cases of undetected fraud, professional evaluators (i.e. experienced auditors) do not evaluate auditor performance any more favorably when the auditor more accurately assessed a heightened risk of fraud. This occurs despite professional evaluators indicating both that (1) more accurate fraud risk assessments are higher quality risk assessments, and (2) higher quality risk assessments improve auditor performance. These beliefs do not ultimately increase performance evaluations of auditors who more accurately assess fraud risks because professional evaluators, consistent with theory, react to accurately heightened risk assessments by non-normatively increasing their conceptualization of the standard of care auditors must meet to comply with audit standards. The tendency to hold auditors to higher (lower) standards when they more (less) accurately assess fraud risks yields a judgment pattern that is inconsistent with, and potentially undermines the paramount value accorded to accurate risk assessment by audit practitioners, standards, regulators, and academics.

Keywords: risk assessment, undetected fraud, auditor liability, auditor foresight, black sheep effect

JEL Classification: M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Vittori, Kamber and Peecher, Mark E. and Reffett, Andrew and Zimbelman, Aaron F., The Effects of Accurate Fraud Risk Assessment on Audit Professionals’ Judgments of Auditor Performance in Cases of Undetected Fraud: Evidence of Shifting Standards (October 21, 2020). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3716630, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3716630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3716630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R D Allen , D R Hermanson , T M Kozloski , R J Ramsay
Auditor risk assessment: Insights from the academic literature
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 157 - 177
Crossref
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 2002
Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement Posted: 2006
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
257,421
3 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies