Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Field-Based Evidence to Understand the Antecedents to Auditors’ Skeptical Actions

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

66 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2020 Last revised: 13 Jan 2024

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Sanne Janssen

Open University; University of Antwerp

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: February 12, 2021

Abstract

We provide field-based evidence on antecedents to auditors’ skeptical actions, using over 600 auditors across all ranks from six audit firms as participants. We evaluate the relative importance of situational, client, and individual auditor characteristics, along with measures of auditors’ cognitive processing in relation to their self-reports of skeptical actions on one of their own audits. We find that the most important antecedents are each audit firm’s overall professional orientation, auditors’ individual feelings of accountability, their trait skepticism, their motivation to perform well on the engagement, and their intentions to behave skeptically. Auditors’ intentions are most influenced by social norms and less influenced by attitudes towards and self-efficacy about behaving skeptically. Other important antecedents include each audit firm’s quality control systems, certain individual auditors’ personality traits, their client-related industry expertise, and their audit knowledge. Our findings support various aspects of prior conceptual models and suggest ways in which audit firms can promote skeptical actions.

Keywords: professional skepticism; auditor judgment; personality; attitudes; subjective norms; theory of planned behavior; audit quality

JEL Classification: M42; J24

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris and Janssen, Sanne and Vanstraelen, Ann and Zehms, Karla M., Using Field-Based Evidence to Understand the Antecedents to Auditors’ Skeptical Actions (February 12, 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3717615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3717615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
179 References
Autoriteit Financiële Markten (AFM) 2014. Uitkomsten onderzoek kwaliteit wettelijke controles Big 4-accountantsorganisaties
Aicpa
Performing audit procedures in response to assessed risks and evaluating the audit evidence obtained , volume 330 Posted: 2012
I Ajzen
From intentions to actions: A theory of planned behavior
In Action Control by J. Kuhl and J. Beckmann Posted: 1985
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
923
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,220
RANK
58,646
9 Citations
179 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies