Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Skepticism Traits and Fraud Brainstorming Quality

37 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2020

Sanne Janssen

Open University; University of Antwerp

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: September 25, 2020

Abstract

Auditing standards emphasize that fraud detection is an important objective of an audit and require the exercise of professional skepticism (PS) and a discussion among the engagement team to prevent and detect fraud. The purpose of this study is to examine whether professional skepticism is a driver of fraud brainstorming quality. We investigate the relationship between fraud brainstorming quality, using the measure of Brazel et al. (2010), and auditor’s professional skepticism traits. Using proprietary data from Dutch audit firms on 125 engagements, we find that neutral trait skepticism and professional moral courage of the partner have a significant effect on fraud brainstorming quality. We observe a higher attendance rate and contribution of specialists, more extensive discussion, longer preparation, and longer sessions for engagements led by partners with high neutral trait skepticism and high moral courage. We find no significant results for partners with a high presumptive doubt trait. Additional cross-sectional analyses show that the effect of professional skepticism on FBQ depends on situational, organizational conditions.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Fraud Brainstorming, Fraud Risk Assessment, Fraud, Brainstorming

JEL Classification: M42; J24

Suggested Citation:

Janssen, Sanne and Hardies, Kris and Vanstraelen, Ann and Zehms, Karla M., Professional Skepticism Traits and Fraud Brainstorming Quality (September 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3719155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3719155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Toward Enhanced Professional Skepticism. Observations of the IAASB-IAESB-IESBA Professional Skepticism Working Group Posted: 2017
International Standard on Auditing (ISA) 200: Overall objectives of the independent auditor and the conduct of an audit in accordance with international standards on auditing
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Posted: 2009
International Standard on Auditing (ISA) 315: Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement through understanding the entity and its environment
International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators (IFIAR) (2015) Report on 2014 Survey of Inspection Findings Posted: 2009
I Khelil , K Hussainey , H Noubbigh
Audit committee -internal audit interaction and moral courage
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 31 , issue 4/5 , p. 403 - 433 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,501
RANK
146,022
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies