Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the news media mitigate the contagion effect of low-quality audits?

51 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2020 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Elizabeth N. Cowle

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Caleb Rawson

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Date Written: April 3, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether negative news about peer auditors influences the contagion effect of lowquality audits. Consistent with prior research on the contagion effect, we find that prior period peer restatements are associated with subsequent restatements for other companies in an audit office and MSA. However, we find that higher negative peer news coverage mitigates the contagion of low-quality audits, particularly among smaller companies and companies located in areas with higher local news intensity. Moreover, our findings extend to litigation related news, but not other non-negative news, suggesting that auditors respond to perceived reputational threats stemming from negative news. Finally, we find that negative peer news impacts auditor attention, suggesting a mechanism through which the observed changes in audit quality occur. Collectively, our findings highlight the media's role as an informal oversight mechanism that shapes auditor behavior by disseminating reputational threats across auditor networks.

Keywords: Auditor Reputation, Media Coverage, Big 4, Contagion, Audit Quality, Audit Offices

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cowle, Elizabeth N. and Rawson, Caleb and Rowe, Stephen P., Does the news media mitigate the contagion effect of low-quality audits? (April 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3720973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3720973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An Investigation of the Market's Pricing of Auditor Competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars Blunder
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 98 Posted: 2022
W P Aerts
Picking up the Pieces: Impression Management in the Retrospective Attributional Framing of Accounting Outcomes
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
R Ahluwalia , H R Unnava , R E Burnkrant
The Moderating Role of Commitment on the Spillover Effect of Marketing Communications
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 458 - 470 Posted: 2001
K D Allee , R Cating , C Rawson
No News is Bad News: Local News Intensity and Firms' Information Environments Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,417
RANK
111,747
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies