Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Audit Market Competition

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2020 Last revised: 21 Jun 2022

Yue Pan

Xiamen University - School of Economics

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Pengdong Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Date Written: June 20, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the relation between audit market competition and audit quality. We use the staggered introduction of bullet trains in different Chinese cities as shocks to travel time between audit clients and prospective audit firms, which increases the threat of competition for incumbent audit firms. The inception of bullet train connectivity leads to a 4.5 percentage point (pp) increase in the probability of GAAP violations and a 1.7 pp decrease in the probability of modified audit opinions for clients headquartered in connected cities. Bullet train connectivity is also followed by a 1.6 pp decrease in income-decreasing audit adjustments but no change in income-increasing audit adjustments. The negative relation between bullet train connectivity and audit quality is 1) stronger when bullet trains put greater competitive pressure on incumbent auditors and 2) weaker when clients demand high audit quality. Our paper provides plausibly causal evidence that competition lowers audit quality.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, Audit Quality, China, Competition, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M4, M42, D40, D43, G3

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Yue and Shroff, Nemit and Zhang, Pengdong, The Dark Side of Audit Market Competition (June 20, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3721517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3721517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
American Assembly
The future of the accounting profession: Auditor concentration Posted: 2005
P Amos , D Bullock , J Sondhi
High-speed rail: The fast track to economic development? Posted: 2010
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017-04-01
A Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,985
RANK
42,382
18 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies