Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Suspension of Chinese Units of ‘Big 4’ Audit Firms: The Question of Moral Turpitude

2017 in: Watson, Susan and Vasudev, P M (eds.) Global capital markets: a survey of legal and regulatory trends. Edward Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham and Camberley, UK, pp. 35-61. ISBN 9781786432865

Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Qingxiu Bu

University of Sussex Law School

Date Written: March 30, 2017

Abstract

The regulation of gatekeepers is primarily intended to ensure the accuracy of issuers’ disclosures. The “Big 4” accounting firms (Deloitte, EY, KPMG and PwC) (Big 4) may face a moral hazard issue resulting from the perception that capital markets would not tolerate a reduction in their current number. Moral hazard amplifies when the Big 4 perceive that they are too big to fail. The problems experienced with Chinese reverse merger companies (RMCs) and IPOs revealed multiple leverages between the court and enforcement agencies from companies’ home and host states. It remains a challenge in shaping the global governance of auditors when they are in the middle between two jurisdictions. This chapter examines the experience with the Big 4’s handling of Chinese companies listed on US exchanges and argues that the theory of ‘between a rock and a hard place’ in this context may not serve as an affirmative defence for Big 4’s refusal to produce audit documents to US regulators. The chapter advocates multi-jurisdictional cooperation as a meaningful tool to promote the integrity of audit, financial reporting, and global capital markets.

Keywords: Big 4; Moral Turpitude; Suspension; Audit; Global Governance

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Bu, Qingxiu, Suspension of Chinese Units of ‘Big 4’ Audit Firms: The Question of Moral Turpitude (March 30, 2017). 2017 in: Watson, Susan and Vasudev, P M (eds.) Global capital markets: a survey of legal and regulatory trends. Edward Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham and Camberley, UK, pp. 35-61. ISBN 9781786432865, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3722443
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
375
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies