Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Caught Between Two Worlds: Big 4 Professionals Moving to Non-Big 4 Firms

52 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2021 Last revised: 23 Feb 2025

Laurence Daoust

HEC Montreal

Candice Hux

Northern Illinois University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 15, 2025

Abstract

Researchers have studied the entry of professionals into the public accounting field, their careers at an organization, and their exit from the field. However, they have largely overlooked the mobility of these professionals, whose careers involve firm transfers. Drawing on Bourdieu’s sociology and interviews with 31 transferees and 7 non-Big 4 legacy partners, we examine the move of Big 4 professionals to non-Big 4 firms. Our findings show that transferees have an ingrained belief that a Big 4 career is the ideal professional trajectory. But they experience points of disjuncture at these firms, prompting them to reevaluate this organizational illusio and their career aspirations, and ultimately reinforcing their transfer decision. After moving, transferees learn by trial and error how to valorize and layer their habitus and different forms of capital in order to adjust to the non-Big 4 firms. Our findings challenge prior assumptions about the superiority of Big 4 professionals and the distinctive forms of their capital by showing that the capital needed to obtain powerful positions at Big 4 and non-Big 4 firms are similar, but that their nature and relative value vary. Our findings reveal a paradoxical dynamic in which their Big 4 habitus and capital undergo a complex, iterative process of valorization and layering when these professionals move within the public accounting field. This contrasts with a materialization of professional domination that occurs when former Big 4 employees move outside the public accounting field. For most of our transferees, dissonance also develops between the Big 4 and non-Big layers of their habitus and they never completely deconstruct their organizational illusio. These findings reveal that reflexivity of transferees is both shaped and limited by their Big 4 habitus and illusio. Overall, our results contribute to the understanding of professional mobility within the public accounting field.

Keywords: public accounting firms, professional services firms, Bourdieu, doxa, habitus, illusio, reflexivity, career transitions, elite firms, non-elite firms

JEL Classification: L84, M42, M5

Suggested Citation:

Daoust, Laurence and Hux, Candice and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Caught Between Two Worlds: Big 4 Professionals Moving to Non-Big 4 Firms (February 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3724048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Making up accountants: The organizational and professional socialization of trainee chartered accountants Posted: 1998
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Work hard, play hard": An analysis of organizational cliché in two accountancy practices
Organization , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 565 - 592 Posted: 1998
R Azambuja , L Baudot , S Matsubara , T Endo , D Wallace
Unbecoming' a professional: The role of memory during field transitions in Japan and the USA
Journal of Management Studies , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2024
P L Bagley , D Dalton , M Ortegren
The factors that affect accountants' decisions to seek careers with Big 4 versus Non-Big 4 accounting firms
Accounting Horizon , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 264 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,046
RANK
225,977
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Economic Sociology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies