Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Audits – Ten Years of Experience: A Literature Review

World Tax Journal, 2020 (Volume 12), No. 3 available at https://www.ibfd.org/IBFD-Products/Journal-Articles/World-Tax-Journal/collections/wtj/html/wtj_2020_03_e2_3.html

Posted: 12 Jan 2021

Criclivaia Diana

Universität Osnabrück, Institut für Finanz- und Steuerrecht; Moldova State University, Department Finance and Banks

Date Written: September 16, 2020

Abstract

Aiming to identify new opportunities for future research on joint audits (JAs), a literature review is conducted to reveal the major insights arising from the last ten years (e.g. the countries implementing JA, the number of ordinary and pilot project cases, costs and failures of JAs). In terms of the methodology applied, a total of 116 published works, spanning authors from 17 countries, were found. The analysis included: the year of publication; most-cited articles and authors; most-active journals and publishers; authorship and affiliation; type of study; and related topics addressing the JA. The findings provide evidence that there are an increasing number of JA studies, approximately 11 publications per year, but that this overall trend is mainly the result of an increase in studies published in Germany. The data suggests that the number of publications addressing JA is decreasing in other countries. The data demonstrates a strong correlation between the number of JA cases and the number of publications. Ninety-five per cent of German studies are published in German, which makes it difficult to capture the experience and knowledge worldwide. None of the research papers found address the topic of JAs on an empirical basis. Most publications have focused on an examination of the legal framework, JA pilot projects analysis, real cases discussion and research on the obstacles to an efficient JA procedure. Various authors have presented their own approach to defining, providing a final result and the legal bases of the JA, which are sometimes similar to the OECD proposal to audit cross-border activities jointly, and sometimes different. Representatives of the tax administration are responsible for publishing half of all publications. The Bavarian Ministry of Finance seems to be the world’s leading testing ground on JAs to date.

Keywords: Joint Tax Audits, Simultaneous Tax Audits, Tax Examinations Abroad

JEL Classification: K33, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Diana, Criclivaia and Diana, Criclivaia, Joint Audits – Ten Years of Experience: A Literature Review (September 16, 2020). World Tax Journal, 2020 (Volume 12), No. 3 available at https://www.ibfd.org/IBFD-Products/Journal-Articles/World-Tax-Journal/collections/wtj/html/wtj_2020_03_e2_3.html, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3726053
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies