Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Skill Demands and Audit Quality: Evidence from Job Postings




Management Science, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Charles (Chad) Ham

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Rebecca N. Hann

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

MaryJane Rabier

Washington University in St. Louis

Wenfeng Wang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

This study empirically examines the relation between audit quality and auditors’ cognitive and social skills. Using a novel dataset of online job postings by accounting firms, we document substantial variation in the stated demand for auditors’ cognitive and social skills, suggesting that audit offices are not homogeneous in their preferences for such skills. We find a positive relation between audit quality and the prevalence of cognitive and social skills within an audit office’s job postings. This association is stronger for audit engagements that are more complex or require greater coordination, suggesting that cognitive and social skills are particularly important in engagements where effective communication and knowledge transfer, as well as sound professional judgement and skepticism, are needed. The association is also stronger for audit offices with greater investments in new technology, consistent with the complementary relation between cognitive and social skills and the use of technology. Overall, our study offers among the first empirical evidence linking specific auditor skills to audit quality.

Keywords: Auditor skill demands, audit quality, job postings

Suggested Citation:

Ham, Charles and Hann, Rebecca N. and Rabier, MaryJane and Wang, Wenfeng, Auditor Skill Demands and Audit Quality: Evidence from Job Postings

(September 05, 2024).
, Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3727495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
Which Audit Input Matters? An Analysis of the Determinants of Audit Quality, Profitability, and Audit Fees Using PCAOB Data Posted: 2018
A Austin , T Carpenter , M Christ , C Nielson
The Data Analytics Transformation: Evidence From Auditors, CFOs, and Standard-Setters Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
Anastassia Fedyk , James Hodson , Natalya Khimich , Tatiana Fedyk
Is artificial intelligence improving the audit process?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 938 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Hüseyin ÖZYİĞİT
İç Kontrol Sisteminin Değerlendirilmesinde Yapay Zekâ: Bağımsız Denetçilere Yönelik Bir Araştırma
Muhasebe ve Finansman Dergisi , issue 99 , p. 103 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,944
RANK
12,264
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies