Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust and Contracts: Empirical Evidence

73 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 4 Nov 2024

Francesco D'Acunto

Georgetown University

Jin Xie

Peking University HSBC Business School

Jiaquan YAO

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2020

Abstract

Trust between parties should shape contract design: if parties were suspicious about each others' reaction to unplanned events, they might pay higher negotiation costs to complete contracts ex-ante. Using a unique sample of U.S. consulting contracts, novel text-based-analysis measures of contract completeness, and a negative shock to trust between shareholders/managers (principals) and consultants (agents) staggered across space and over time, we find that lower trust increases contract completeness. Non-competes, details about equity compensation, indemnification, termination, and confidentiality clauses are added to contracts after trust drops.

Keywords: Empirical Contract Theory, Incomplete Contracts, Cultural Economics, Beliefs and Choice, Personnel Economics, Organizational Economics, FinTech and Textual Analysis, Consulting, Management, Non-Compete Agreements, Big Five, Fraud, Accounting, Disclosure

JEL Classification: D86, D91, J33, L14, Z10

Suggested Citation:

D'Acunto, Francesco and Xie, Jin and YAO, Jiaquan, Trust and Contracts: Empirical Evidence (November 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3728808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3728808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
U Acikalin , T Caskurlu , G Hoberg , G M Phillips
Intellectual property protection lost: The impact on competition and acquisitions
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
A Alpert , W N Evans , E M J Lieber , D Powell
Origins of the opioid crisis and its enduring impacts
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , issue 2 , p. 1139 - 1179 Posted: 2022
D Ang
The effects of police violence on inner-city students
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 136 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 168 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,258
RANK
57,850
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies