Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Archival Evidence on the Audit Process: Determinants and Consequences of Interim Effort

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 8, 2020

Abstract

Using proprietary data from a global accounting firm, we investigate the determinants of auditors’ interim effort as well as the impact of interim effort on audit quality, client disclosure timeliness, audit hours, and audit fees. Public statements from accounting firms and regulators suggest various benefits from accelerating auditor effort, but these claims remain largely untested. We find that interim effort is higher for large, complex clients that require integrated audits of both financial statements and internal control over financial reporting. With respect to consequences, we find that allocating relatively more work to the interim period is associated with a reduced likelihood of late 10-K filings, decreased total audit hours, and higher fees. Although increasing interim period effort is not, on average, associated with a reduced likelihood of misstatement, we do find that current period material weaknesses are less likely with greater interim work. Thus, greater interim effort appears to facilitate the remediation of internal control deficiencies before year-end. We also show that the benefits of increased interim period effort allocation are much stronger – including improved audit quality – when manager and partner interim involvement is high. Overall, our study provides important new insights on audit production and highlights benefits of reduced hours for auditors, earlier identification of control deficiencies for clients, and more timely financial reports for investors.

Keywords: Audit hours, interim testing, audit quality, timely filings, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Newton, Nathan J. and Wilkins, Michael S., Archival Evidence on the Audit Process: Determinants and Consequences of Interim Effort (July 8, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3731385
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies