Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Machine Learning Approach of Measuring Audit Quality: Evidence From China

61 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2021 Last revised: 21 Mar 2022

Hanxin Hu

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Ting Sun

The College of New Jersey

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China

Date Written: November 17, 2020

Abstract

While existing research primarily uses audit quality proxies based on observable information, this study aims to construct a measure of audit quality that can capture the effect of audit quality-related factors that are not observable to outsiders of the accounting firm or the client company. Based on machine learning models and a wide range of data describing characteristics of audit firms, individual audit partners, and public companies in China, this paper constructs the surprise score, a new measure of audit quality, calculated as the difference between the predicted probability and the actual value of an audit quality-related event (i.e., the existence of material misstatements, audit adjustments, and non-clean audit opinions). The proposed measure can identify low-quality audits driven by unobservable factors. The effectiveness of the surprise score is validated by testing the associations between the surprise score and penalties or audit firm changes in the next year. In addition, for each of the two tests, it compares the explanatory power of the surprise score based on machine learning models and traditional logistic regressions. Results evidence the superiority of the machine learning-based surprise scores. The proposed approach is then applied to U.S. data to generalize its application. The surprise score can be considered an addition to existing audit quality measures to help regulators make better-informed decisions about audit quality.

Keywords: Audit quality, machine learning, misstatement, audit adjustment, non-clean opinion, audit failure

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Hanxin and Sun, Ting and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A. and Zhang, Min, A Machine Learning Approach of Measuring Audit Quality: Evidence From China (November 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3732563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary accounting research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The accounting review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,813
RANK
57,392
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies