Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Risk Associated with Long-Lived Tangible Asset Intensity, Age, and Impairment

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, 2021, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Daqun Zhang

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, Department of Accounting

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Donald R. Deis

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 16, 2020

Abstract

Although long-lived tangible assets are critical for business operations and create value for investors, prior literature has not examined how the risks pertaining to these assets affect auditors’ pricing and reporting decisions. Indeed, the PCAOB (2017) has expressed concerns about persistent deficiencies in auditing fair value measurements and impairment of nonfinancial assets including tangible long-term assets. We document that the intensity of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is negatively associated with audit fees, and that more aged PP&E and asset impairments are positively associated with audit fees. The negative association between PP&E intensity and audit fees is attenuated in presence of an auditor change, which is consistent with new auditors exerting greater audit effort to verify opening balances of these accounts. Supplemental tests indicate that the results are robust to industry partitions. These findings shed light on the ways in which long-lived tangible assets affect auditors’ risk assessments and pricing decisions.

Keywords: audit fees; property, plant and equipment (PP&E) intensity; PP&E age; asset impairments; auditor change

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Daqun and Amin, Keval and Deis, Donald R., Audit Risk Associated with Long-Lived Tangible Asset Intensity, Age, and Impairment (November 16, 2020). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, 2021, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3733239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 60 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Aliabadi , A Dorestani , M Qadri
Fraud Prevention and Detection in the United States: A Macro Perspective
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 150 - 165 Posted: 2011
K Amin , J D Eshleman , C Feng
The effect of the SEC's XBRL mandate on audit report lags
Accounting Horizons , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2018
Crossref
K Amin , J D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor sentiment, misstatements, and auditor behavior
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,387
RANK
106,376
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies