Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Artificial Intelligence Reduce the Effect of Independence Conflicts on Audit Firm Liability?

51 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2020 Last revised: 8 Jan 2024

Robert Libby

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Patrick Witz

University of Wyoming

Date Written: November 20, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether the use of artificial intelligence can reduce the effect of independence conflicts on audit firm liability. In two experiments, we manipulate (1) whether procedures are performed by a human auditor or with artificial intelligence and (2) whether the audit firm was careful in maintaining the appearance of independence from the audit client. Results of both experiments indicate that the use of artificial intelligence significantly reduces the impact of the appearance of independence conflicts on jurors’ judgments of audit firm liability. When concerns relating to the appearance of independence conflicts are present, the use of AI helps maintain the perceived objectivity of the auditor which results in jurors maintaining higher overall trust in the audit process. Our study contributes to literature on determinants of auditor litigation risk and how technological change that is likely to grow in prominence might affect audit firm liability.

Keywords: Audit firm legal liability, artificial intelligence, objectivity, independence, analytical procedures, trust

JEL Classification: M40, M41, K41, C91

Suggested Citation:

Libby, Robert and Witz, Patrick, Can Artificial Intelligence Reduce the Effect of Independence Conflicts on Audit Firm Liability? (November 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3734629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3734629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J C Anderson , M M Jennings , S E Kaplan , P M J Reckers
The effect of diagnostic decision aids for analytical procedures on judges' liability judgments
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 14 , p. 33 - 62 Posted: 1995
B Arel , M M Jennings , K Pany , P J M Reckers
Auditor liability: A comparison of judge and juror verdicts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 516 - 532 Posted: 2012
Plain English guide to independence Posted: 2021
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,696
RANK
69,213
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies