Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Effects of Rich Data Visualization and Audit Procedure Categorization on Auditor Judgment

53 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2021

Spencer B. Anderson

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Jessen L. Hobson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: September 03, 2024

Abstract

Audit standards demand revision to the audit plan and additional testing procedures whenever new information indicative of a possible material misstatement comes to light at any point during the audit. An appealing conjecture is that richer data visualizations that more transparently reveal client data abnormalities will generally facilitate these revisions. However, we predict and, using an experiment of more than 200 audit seniors, find that the extent to which auditors respond to data abnormalities revealed by richer visualizations depends on audit procedure categorization. We manipulate audit procedure categorization by labelling otherwise identical interim audit work as risk assessment procedures or as substantive analytical procedures. Richer visualizations that more transparently reveal data abnormalities result in improved auditor judgment, but only when these abnormalities arise from risk assessment procedures. When abnormalities arise from substantive analytical procedures, we find no significant response by auditors to richer visualizations of material client data abnormalities. These results have implications for audit firm methodologies, standard setting, and policymaking.

Keywords: Audit, Data visualization, Classification, Audit procedures, Analytical procedures, Risk assessment procedures, Substantive procedures

JEL Classification: M42, M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Spencer B. and Hobson, Jessen L. and Peecher, Mark E., The Joint Effects of Rich Data Visualization and Audit Procedure Categorization on Auditor Judgment (September 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3737234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3737234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S B Anders
Audit data analytics resources
CPA Journal Posted: 2017
J C Anderson , J M Mueller
The effects of experience and data presentation format on an auditing judgment
Journal of Applied Business Research (JABR) , issue 1 Posted: 2005
J C Anderson , P M J Reckers
An empirical investigation of the effects of presentation format and personality on auditor's judgment in applying analytical procedures
Advances in Accounting , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 43 Posted: 1992
S B Anderson , K I Mendoza , C Mongold
The Effect of Intangible Asset Classification on Professional Financial Statement Users' Assessments Posted: 2024
Load more
12 Citations
Veena Looknanan Brown , Dana R. Hermanson , Julia L. Higgs , J. Gregory Jenkins , Christine Nolder , Tammie J. Schaefer , Kecia Williams Smith
Comments of the Auditing Standards Committee of the Auditing Section of the American Accounting Association on the Concept Release, Potential Approach to Revisions to PCAOB Quality Control Standards
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. C1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Danielle R. Lombardi , Janice C. Sipior , Steven Dannemiller
Auditor Judgment Bias Research: A 50-Year Trend Analysis and Emerging Technology Use
Journal of Information Systems , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 109 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Melek Şardağ Karabulut , Murat Serçemeli
DENETİMDE BÜYÜK VERİ GÖRSELLEŞTİRME: ANKARA’DA FAALİYET GÖSTEREN BAĞIMSIZ DENETİM ŞİRKETLERİ ÜZERİNE BİR ARAŞTIRMA
Muhasebe ve Denetime Bakış , volume 24 , issue 74 , p. 327 Posted: 2025
Crossref
XIAOXING LI , JOSEPH F. BRAZEL , ANNA GOLD , JUSTIN LEIBY
Inheriting Versus Developing Data Analytic Tests and Auditors’ Professional Skepticism
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
594
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
104,547
12 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies