Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Client’s Positive Media Attention Affect Audit Fees?

40 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Aug 2022

Svenja Hillebrandt

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Glen Gray

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 25, 2020

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates whether positive media attention affects audit fees. Specifically, we use the Wall Street Journal Management Top 250 (WSJ 250) ranking of best-managed companies to investigate the impact of positive media attention on audit fees. Employing a difference-in-difference approach on U.S. American listed companies, we find that audit fees increase over time and that companies being part of the WSJ 250 ranking pay generally higher fees than their peers. However, our results suggest that the first publication of the ranking and, thus, positive media attention leads to a reduction in the increase in audit fees. This result suggests that auditors have a special interest for audit clients receiving positive media attention and adjust their pricing strategy accordingly. Similarly, our additional analyses show that positive media attention results in an increase in earnings management and, at the same time, reduces the likelihood for an accounting restatement. This result suggests that auditors allow clients, who receive positive media attention, a higher level of earnings management to retain them and, at the same time, detect accounting errors more frequently to prevent reputational damage.

Keywords: audit fees, media attention, positive media, audit client characteristics, auditor independence, difference-in-difference analysis

JEL Classification: M4, M42, M48, L14

Suggested Citation:

Hillebrandt, Svenja and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Gray, Glen, Does Audit Client’s Positive Media Attention Affect Audit Fees? (November 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3737361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3737361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? The information content of internet stock message boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2005
S C Asthana , R Kalelkar
Effect of client reputation on audit fees at the office level: An examination of S&P 500 index membership
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2014
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
J Barton
Who cares about auditor reputation?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
355,843
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies