Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Compromising the Auditor Independence: A Study on the Perception of Malaysian Publicly Listed Companies

Journal of Administrative Science Vol.17, Issue 2, 2020, pp. 01 - 19

19 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Norziana Lokman

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Nur’atiqah Mohd Bakri

Faculty of Administrative Science & Policy Studies

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

One of the critical responsibilities of the auditor is to form an independent view of the company’s financial performance in the auditor’s statement. In Malaysia, the issue of auditor independence has recently become prominent due to the 1MDB scandal. Hence, this study focuses on determining the factors that compromise auditor independence in Malaysian publicly listed companies. This study has identified four main factors which are perceived to affect auditor independence. They are audit fees, audit tenure, auditor market competition and non-audit services. This study aims to investigate the relationship between the four compromised factors and auditor independence. A set of questionnaires was developed and distributed among 280 accountants, financial managers and chief financial officer of Malaysian publicly listed companies. Each respondent is required to assess the compromised factors that contribute to auditor independence using a ‘Five-point Likert scale’. The data collected then were tested and analyzed using correlation and regression analysis. Findings reveal that audit tenure has positively and significantly influenced the auditor independence. Moreover, other factors have no significant influence on auditor independence. This study contributes to the literature of auditor independence and provides further evidence that long audit tenure can enhance the independence of auditors from the perspective of listed companies. Thus, the professional bodies, regulators and policymakers should carefully consider the recommendation on the restriction of auditor rotation and audit firm rotation before making it mandatory.

Keywords: auditor independence, audit fees, auditor tenure, auditor market competition, audit quality non-audit services

Suggested Citation:

Lokman, Norziana and Mohd Bakri, Nur’atiqah, Factors Compromising the Auditor Independence: A Study on the Perception of Malaysian Publicly Listed Companies (December 1, 2020). Journal of Administrative Science Vol.17, Issue 2, 2020, pp. 01 - 19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Abu Bakar , N B Ahmad , M
Auditor Independence: Malaysian accountants' perceptions
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 12 , p. 129 - 141 Posted: 2009
N Ahadiat
Association between audit opinion and provision of non-audit services
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 182 - 193 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Al-Ajmi , S Saudagaran
Perceptions of auditors and financial-statement users regarding auditor independence in Bahrain
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 130 - 160 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Al-Khaddash , R Al-Nawas , A Ramadan
Factors affecting the quality of Auditing: The Case of Jordanian Commercial Banks
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 4 , issue 11 , p. 206 - 222 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,760
RANK
98,322
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies