Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Auditor Narcissism and Moral Disengagement on Risk Assessments of a Narcissistic Client CFO

Eric N. Johnson, D. Jordan Lowe, Philip M.J. Reckers, 2021.The influence of auditor narcissism and moral disengagement on risk assessments of a narcissistic client CFO. Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 40 (4): 106826. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2021.106826

Posted: 15 Dec 2020 Last revised: 23 Aug 2021

Eric N. Johnson

University of Wyoming - Department of Accounting

D. Jordan Lowe

Arizona State University (ASU)

Philip Reckers

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 19, 2021

Abstract

Global capital markets rely heavily on independent and skeptical auditors as gatekeepers to provide assurance that corporate financial reports are free of material fraud. The rise of narcissism among the ranks of both client and audit professionals challenge this gatekeeper function. In addition, auditor moral disengagement may undermine auditor skepticism, further eroding public confidence in the integrity of financial reporting and the audit process.

We conduct a quasi-experiment with 118 auditors from three international audit firms. In a simulated interview with a client CFO, we examine whether auditors underestimate risks of fraudulent financial statements due to the interactive effects of (1) client narcissism (manipulated verbally and nonverbally) and (2) auditor narcissism. We also examine the influence of auditor moral disengagement on client risk assessments.

Results indicate that CFO verbal and nonverbal narcissism significantly influenced auditors’ assessment of management-related client risk. Moreover, auditor narcissism was found to interactively influence client risk inferences such that auditors higher in narcissism exhibited narcissistic tolerance (lower risk assessments) when the hypothetical CFO displayed high verbal narcissism. Auditor moral disengagement was negatively associated with client risk assessments. We discuss the implication of these findings on future audit judgment research, audit firm policy and training on maintaining auditor skepticism, and the audit oversight role of standard-setters.

Keywords: auditor narcissism, client narcissism, risk tolerance, moral disengagement, skepticism

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Eric N. and Lowe, D. Jordan and Reckers, Philip, The Influence of Auditor Narcissism and Moral Disengagement on Risk Assessments of a Narcissistic Client CFO (August 19, 2021). Eric N. Johnson, D. Jordan Lowe, Philip M.J. Reckers, 2021.The influence of auditor narcissism and moral disengagement on risk assessments of a narcissistic client CFO. Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 40 (4): 106826. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2021.106826, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743018
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,131
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies