Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Changes and Misstatement Risk

65 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2021 Last revised: 17 Mar 2022

Kyle Peterson

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

T. Jeffrey Wilks

Brigham Young University

Date Written: March 15, 2022

Abstract

We examine how various types of accounting changes affect financial misstatement risk and the ways auditors mitigate that risk. We find greater misstatement risk for both idiosyncratic and industry-wide accounting changes and that auditors play an important role in mitigating some of these risks in some situations but not others. Higher quality auditors appear to mitigate the misstatement risk from industry-wide changes, but not idiosyncratic ones. Misstatement risk is also mitigated when auditors communicate accounting changes through explanatory paragraphs and preferability letters and when they identify material weaknesses. We also find evidence that revenue- and non-revenue-related accounting changes are associated with revenue-related and non-revenue-related misstatements, respectively. Our evidence suggests that accounting changes are associated with a heightened risk of misstating the financial statements and auditors do not fully mitigate these risks in their audits.

Keywords: accounting changes, accounting consistency, misstatements, auditors

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Peterson, Kyle and Schmardebeck, Roy and Wilks, Thomas Jeffrey, Accounting Changes and Misstatement Risk (March 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3745418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3745418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC staff accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
T R Archibald
The return to straight-line depreciation: An analysis of a change in accounting method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 164 - 180 Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,037
RANK
189,166
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies