Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tacit Knowledge, Audit Quality, and Talent Identification

Posted: 21 Feb 2021

Isabella Grabner

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Markets and Strategy

Judith Künneke

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Frank Moers

Maastricht University School of Business and Economics; European Centre for Corporate Engagement (ECCE)

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

The accounting literature has recently transitioned from the focus on client- or audit firm-level characteristics and their relation with audit quality to the inclusion of audit partner and team effects in audit quality. We extend this literature by studying whether tacit knowledge is a relevant factor in achieving high audit quality. Using survey measures and unique proprietary data of a Big 4 firm, we find evidence that the engagement partners’ level of tacit knowledge explains variation in audit quality as defined by the firm’s internal assessment of audit quality. Given its value-creating character, we subsequently examine whether tacit knowledge is a criterion that is incorporated in the talent identification process. We find that tacit knowledge is largely ignored or even negatively correlated with the firm’s assessment of potential, which likely provides an explanation for the loss of talent in professional audit firms.

Keywords: human capital management; tacit knowledge; audit quality; performance management; talent identification

Suggested Citation:

Grabner, Isabella and Künneke, Judith and Moers, Frank, Tacit Knowledge, Audit Quality, and Talent Identification (September 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3752703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3752703
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies