Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects on Choice of Auditor Reputation: Evidence from Quasi-experiments

Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 16 Aug 2022

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Xiaoran (Nancy) Cao

Deakin University

Date Written: August 10, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how a firm’s choice of auditor reputation is influenced by a change in the reputation of its industry peers’ auditors. Exploiting the setting of Big N auditors’ acquisitions of non-Big N auditors whereby the acquired non-Big Ns’ clients (the triggering firms) experience an exogenous upgrade of auditor reputation without involving an auditor change, we show that their industry peers (the treatment firms) respond by also upgrading their auditor statuses to the same reputation rank, i.e., switching from a non-Big N to a non-acquiring Big N auditor. The peer effect is stronger when the competition of the event industries is more intense, the triggering firms are more competitive, the treatment firms are involved in external financing, and the acquiring Big Ns are industry specialist auditors. In addition, we show that investors are less responsive to earnings reported by the treatment firms following the acquisition events, but this adverse effect disappears for treatment firms with upgraded auditor reputation. Overall, these results are consistent with competitive pressure driving peer firms to match each other’s auditor reputation.

Keywords: Choice of auditor reputation; Peer effect; ERC; Industry competition

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Cao, Xiaoran (Nancy), Peer Effects on Choice of Auditor Reputation: Evidence from Quasi-experiments (August 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3757326
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
567
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies