Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Techniques to Avoid Cost Accounting Frauds

Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 10, No: 1, pp.60-66.

7 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Vedat Akman

Beykent University

Berkan Acar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Date Written: September 23, 2020

Abstract

Today, we observe the importance of accuracy of financial statements in every corporation. Accounting scandals have caused important losses both in the macro and micro levels. This issue proves the significance of financial statement accuracy. This accuracy is provided by the trust environment. Therefore, it is necessary to provide the required environment of confidence for financial markets to improve and function effectively against increasing accounting frauds gradually. That can only be possible by using different auditing techniques, running inventory counting such as cash and stock, establishing strong internal controls, managing efficiently and benefiting from technology integrated auditing. The aim of this study is to investigate the most effective auditing techniques to avoid cost accounting frauds. In this research, the most effective auditing techniques for detecting and preventing fraud are investigated by using the case analysis method. Also, the well known scandals related with Olympus, Worldcom, Tesco, Sunbeam and Parmalat companies are examined as a part of the case analysis. Finally, recommendations and suggestions regarding fraud prevention methods are presented.


Suggested Citation:

Akman, Vedat and Acar, Berkan and Kizil, Cevdet, Audit Techniques to Avoid Cost Accounting Frauds (September 23, 2020). Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 10, No: 1, pp.60-66., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3759023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
S Adalı , C Kızıl
A Research on the Responbility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample
Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ) , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 64 Posted: 2017
Crossref
N Akdoğan
Maliyet Muhasebesi
Anadolu Üniversitesi , p. 10 - 11 Posted: 2014-06
T Aslan , C Kızıl
Üretim Maliyetlerinin Denetimine Genel Bir Bakış
İktisadi Yenilik Dergisi, Cilt: 6, Sayı: 1, Ocak , volume 2019 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2019
T Aslan , C Kızıl , A Din
Muhasebe Hata ve Hileleri Üzerinde Etkili Faktörlerin Muhasebe Meslek Etiği Kapsamında Analizi: Yalova Örneği
Journal of Social and Humanities Sciences Research (JSHSR) , p. 1125 - 1138 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
106,376
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies