Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Proximity to the Audit Firm’s National Office to Practice Office Growth and Audit Quality

Posted: 28 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 May 2021

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Haoran Zhu

Southern University of Science and Technology; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 10, 2021

Abstract

We examine the role that an audit firm’s national office plays in shaping its practice offices’ economic outcomes. Given that national offices provide superior support, monitoring, and advising to physically closer offices, we expect an increase in proximity to improve practice offices’ capacity and expertise. Exploiting the introduction of new airline routes that results in a decrease in travel time between national and practice offices as an exogenous shock, we find that treated offices enjoy significant growth in their market share and their clients exhibit a significant improvement in financial reporting quality relative to pre-treatment and untreated offices. Cross-sectional tests reveal that these effects are magnified in non-Big 4 and remote Big 4 offices, offices that are more distant from the nearest SEC office, and offices that experience large travel time reductions. Moreover, we show that, after becoming more proximate to the national office, treated offices are more likely to accept inherently riskier engagements, implying that growth among treated offices is partly driven by an increase in treated offices’ ability to take on riskier engagements given their improved expertise. Collectively, these results shed light on the importance of auditors’ national offices to their practice offices.

Keywords: Internal Governance; Proximity; Office Growth; Client Selection; Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M40; M42; D20; D22

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Zhifeng and Zhu, Haoran, The Importance of Proximity to the Audit Firm’s National Office to Practice Office Growth and Audit Quality (May 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3760226
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies