Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Complexity on Analyst Forecast Properties: The Moderating Role of High Quality Audit

International Journal of Finance and Economics (IJFE), Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Mar 2021

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Warwick John Stent

Massey University

Date Written: January 7, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of international accounting standards (hereafter IFRS) complexity on analyst forecast properties including forecast errors, forecast dispersion, and forecast revision. Because high quality audit is likely to moderate the effect of complexity on analyst forecast properties, Industry Specialisation (ISP) as a proxy for high quality audit is introduced as a moderating variable in this paper. The complexity of individual IFRS standards is measured based on IFRS reconciliation statements capturing the adjustments on accounts affected by the changes in accounting standards. We analyse 322 companies listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). Our results suggest that all IFRS standards are not equally complex. A few standards are relatively more complex. These standards have a positive effect on analyst forecast errors, forecast dispersion, and forecast revision. In addition, we find that high quality audit (proxied by city-level industry specialist auditors) can mitigate the adverse impact of IFRS complexity on analyst forecast errors but not on forecast dispersion and revision. More interestingly, the mitigating effect of high quality audit is restricted to only a group of companies exposed to a higher level of aggregate IFRS complexity. The findings of our study contribute to the IFRS literature by identifying the most complex accounting standards. Secondly, this study provides an ex-ante experiment in IFRS adoption, which can be used by adopting countries to understand the impact of IFRS on the analyst forecasts. Finally, our study helps regulators to understand the effects of the complexity of accounting standards on users of financial statements.

Suggested Citation:

Miah, Muhammad Shahin and Jiang, Haiyan and Rahman, Asheq and Stent, Warwick John, The Impact of IFRS Complexity on Analyst Forecast Properties: The Moderating Role of High Quality Audit (January 7, 2021). International Journal of Finance and Economics (IJFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3761657
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies