Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Third-Party Consequences of Changes in Managerial Fiduciary Duties: The Case of Auditors’ Going Concern Opinions

45 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2021

Liang Tan

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University

Santhosh Ramalingegowda

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: January 7, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effect of managerial fiduciary duties on the likelihood of firms receiving going concern (GC) opinions from their auditors. We exploit an influential 1991 legal ruling that expanded fiduciary duties of corporate directors and officers in favor of creditors for near-insolvent Delaware firms. Our difference-in-differences test reveals an increase in GC opinions following the ruling for near-insolvent Delaware firms. Further tests indicate an increase in Type I audit opinion errors and no change in audit risk after the ruling. Additional analysis shows that after the ruling near-insolvent Delaware firms are less likely to dismiss their auditors following the receipt of a GC report. Overall, our findings are consistent with managers and directors with increased fiduciary duties toward creditors exerting less pressure on auditors and allowing them to reveal more GC opinions. Our results highlight important third-party consequences of changes in managerial fiduciary duties.

Keywords: Credit Lyonnais Ruling, Fiduciary Duties, Going Concern Opinions, Auditors

JEL Classification: G30, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Liang and Ramalingegowda, Santhosh and Yu, Yong, Third-Party Consequences of Changes in Managerial Fiduciary Duties: The Case of Auditors’ Going Concern Opinions (January 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3761930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3761930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Crossref
K Menon , D Williams
Investor reaction to going concern audit reports
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 6 , p. 2075 - 2105 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R C Merton
On the pricing of corporate debt: The risk structure of interest rates
Journal of Finance , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 1974
Crossref
J Mutchler
Auditors' perceptions of the going-concern opinion decision
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
425,064
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies