Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-client Reciprocity: Evidence from Forecast-issuing Brokerage Houses and Forecasted Companies Sharing the Same Auditor

Posted: 2 Mar 2021

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yu Wang

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Shafu Zhang

Hunan University

Date Written: January 7, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether auditors accommodate the information needs of some clients by sharing their private information learned from other clients in their portfolio. In analyzing the setting where the forecast-issuing brokerage houses and the forecasted companies engage the same auditor, we find that the brokerage houses issue more accurate forecasts on companies for which they share an auditor, implying that auditors transfer private information on other clients to cater to the information needs of their brokerage house clients. In compensation, we find that these auditors are more likely to secure future IPO audits from IPO deals sponsored by their brokerage house clients who benefit from the more accurate forecasts. In cross-sectional analysis, we report that the impact on forecast accuracy rises when: the auditors have more opportunities for information exchange; the brokerage house clients have stronger demand for private information; the shared auditors are likely to possess valuable private information; the auditors are located in provinces with poor investor protection; and the brokerage house clients have wider scope to recommend IPO audit services. Our results are robust to difference-in-differences research designs with propensity-score matching. Overall, we provide evidence that auditors favor some clients in their portfolio by sharing private information of other clients in anticipation of reciprocity in the form of lucrative future engagements.

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Jiang, Like and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Yu and Zhang, Shafu, Auditor-client Reciprocity: Evidence from Forecast-issuing Brokerage Houses and Forecasted Companies Sharing the Same Auditor (January 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762170
 Not Available for Download
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,063
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies