Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disentangling Overall Audit Inspection Risk: The Effects of Inspection Focus and Inspection Likelihood

54 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Jennifer McCallen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Heather Carrasco

Texas Tech University

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Richard W. Houston

University of Alabama

Yoon Ju Kang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: December 21, 2020

Abstract

We extend research examining how PCAOB inspections impact auditor behavior by identifying “inspection focus” (i.e., the PCAOB’s explicit identification of inspection focal areas) as a critical component of inspection risk and report the results of an experiment that demonstrates its effect on auditor behavior. We manipulate whether inspection focus is aligned or misaligned with areas that auditors assess as high risk, as the likelihood of defensive auditing increases when they are misaligned. Our results support our predictions, which are based on regulatory focus theory. Specifically, we observe that inspection focus leads to greater audit effort in the focal area, which is accompanied by significantly reduced effort in non-focal, higher risk areas. We also observe a decrease in engagement-level efficiency with no corresponding increase in engagement-level effectiveness. Our findings should be of interest to researchers, regulators, and practitioners, as they identify potential unintended consequences of the current inspection process.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections; inspection risk; inspection likelihood; inspection focus; audit quality

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

McCallen, Jennifer and Carrasco, Heather and Doxey, Marcus M and Houston, Richard W. and Kang, Yoon Ju, Disentangling Overall Audit Inspection Risk: The Effects of Inspection Focus and Inspection Likelihood (December 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3762114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3762114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J C Bedard , D Deis , M Curtis , G Jenkins
Risk monitoring and control in audit firms: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 218 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
Do approaching deadlines influence auditors' materiality assessments? Auditing: A
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 29 - 48 Posted: 2017
Crossref
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield , C Stefaniak
The effect of deadline pressure on prenegotiation positions: A comparison of auditors and client management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1507 - 1528 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
344,239
6 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies