Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does auditor's audit strategy change depending on the business risk of the company?: Korean evidence

25 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Jeongmin Yu

Dongguk University - Dongguk Business School

Dong-Hoon Yang

Dongguk University

Date Written: January 12, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between the company’s business risk and the audit strategy applied by the auditor. A sample of 2,421 company-years listed in the Korea Exchange from 2014 to 2018 was taken for the study. The results show a significant relationship between the auditor’s audit strategy and the company’s business risk. Auditors, in general, tend to use an audit strategy that strengthens substantive audit procedures as the business risk associated with deteriorating profitability increases. It is also found that the audit strategy is differently affected by the company’s business risk between Big 4 and non-Big 4 auditors. Big 4 auditors have less reliance on the substantive strategy than non-Big 4 auditors in general, and they strengthen tests of internal controls (“the control reliance strategy”) as the company’s business risk associated with activity and liquidity increases; non-Big 4 auditors, in contrast, strengthen substantive procedures (“the substantive strategy”) in the increase of all dimensions of the company’s business risk. The results also show that non-Big 4 auditors’ increasing relative reliance on the substantive strategy fails to improve audit quality, while Big 4 auditors’ efforts for substantive procedures can increase audit quality. However, the relationship between the audit strategy and audit quality is not found when sufficient audit efforts for control testing procedures are made.

Keywords: Audit strategy; Audit process; Business risk; Risk-based approach

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Jeongmin and Yang, Dong-Hoon, Does auditor's audit strategy change depending on the business risk of the company?: Korean evidence (January 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3764214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Lawrence J Abbott , Susan Parker , Gary F Peters , K Raghuanandan
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Fees, Nonaudit Fees, and Audit Committees , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue Spring , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Jean C Bedard , Karla M Johnstone
Earnings Manipulation Risk, Corporate Governance Risk, and Auditors' Planning and Pricing Decisions
Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004-04
Crossref
Timothy B Bell , Rajib Doogar , Ira Solomon
Audit Labor Usage and Fees under Business Risk Auditing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 729 - 760 Posted: 2008-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
798
RANK
451,566
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies