Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Supreme Court’s Omnicare Decision on Audited Financial Statement Disclosure

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(1): 1-26 (2021)

26 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2021

Michael Bitter

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Valrie Chambers

Stetson University

Brian Elzweig

University of West Florida

Waleed Ikram

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

Since the enactment of the Securities Act of 1933 and 1934, both the legal system and the accounting profession have struggled with the question, “to what extent accountants should rely on the statements of other accounting and non-accounting experts and when should they include parts of expert’s written statements in financial statement disclosures.” The Supreme Court considered this issue in Omnicare v. Laborers District Council Construction Industry Pension Fund (2015) (hereafter, Omnicare). The Omnicare decision refined the expectations of preparers and external auditors working on prospectuses for U.S. registrants. Omnicare considered disclosures in Omnicare’s registration statement regarding their opinions of their perceived compliance with federal regulations and laws. After Omnicare was charged with violations, the Court considered when opinions in registration statements could be treated as misstatements of material fact that could lead to accountant liability.

The clarification to accounting disclosures is important for limiting liability for future registrants as well as for auditors who express an audit opinion on financial statements contained in registration statements. Omnicare created a new rational basis test which is precedential to future cases deciding whether an opinion statement included in a registration statement becomes a misstatement of fact or the lack of an opinion statement constitutes a material omission. Therefore, the rational basis test should be considered by accountants in preparing and auditing registration and post-registration statements, and this article contributes to the accounting and auditing literature by providing new suggested language for incorporation into SEC guidelines and/or PCAOB standards going forward.


Keywords: Financial statement disclosures, registration statement disclosures, Omnicare, AS 4101

JEL Classification: M4, K2

Suggested Citation:

Bitter, Michael and Chambers, Valrie and Elzweig, Brian and Ikram, Waleed, The Impact of the Supreme Court’s Omnicare Decision on Audited Financial Statement Disclosure (January 15, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(1): 1-26 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3767165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Code of Professional Conduct 0.100.010 -Principles and Rules of Conduct
AICPA Posted: 2019
Code of Professional Conduct 2.300.010 -Competence
New Jersey: AICPA Posted: 2019
S A Cave
The Impact of Omnicare on Auditor Liability Under Federal Securities Law
The Review of Securities & Commodities Regulation , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 12 Posted: 2017
A Coley
When is a Belief or Opinion False? Indiana State District Council v. Omnicare and the Contested Section 11 Pleading Standard
California Law Review , volume 5 , p. 336 - 337 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
RANK
459,276
7 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies