Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Market Consequences of Early Adoption of International Standards on Auditing: International Evidence

Elmghaamez, I., Gerged, A.M., and Ntim, C.G. (2020) ‘Financial Market Consequences of Early Adoption of International Standards on Auditing: International Evidence’, Managerial Auditing Journal, 33(6/7), 558-585.

49 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Ibrahim Elmghaamez

University of Huddersfield Business School

Ali Meftah Gerged

De Montfort University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: April 22, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the effects of the early adoption of International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) on Financial Market Indicators (FMIs) from a Diffusion of Innovation (DOI) theory perspective.

Design/methodology/approach: Using panel data from 110 countries in a period that spans from 1995 to 2014, this study applies an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression model to investigate the financial consequences of adopting ISAs. This analysis was supplemented with estimating a fixed-effects and two-stage least squares (2SLS) regression models in order to address any concerns regarding the possible existence of endogeneity problems.

Findings: This study reports three key findings. First, we find that early ISAs adoption has a negative effect on several financial market consequences, namely stock market integration, market capitalisation, market turnover, market return, market development, stock price volatility, and stock trading volume. Second, using an alternative measure to the one that is proposed by DOI theory, we found that some financial indicators have been significantly improved after ISAs adoption, but only for listed firms that prepared their financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and audited by ISAs simultaneously. Finally, the financial indicators of European stock markets, however, have insignificantly shrank post the mandatory adoption of ISAs in 2006.

Practical implications: Our empirical evidence raises questions about how ISAs were enforced and implemented. For example, countries that adopted ISAs at early stages may have been dominated mostly by recently established stock exchanges. This implies a crucial need to determine and apply the best type of auditing regime that can increase investors trust and enhance the credibility of stock markets information, which might ultimately advance the FMIs over time significantly.

Originality/value: To-date, studies investigating the impact of the adoption of ISAs on FMI from a DOI theory perspective are virtually non-existent. Our study, therefore, seeks to contribute to the extant literature by examining the influence of ISAs adoption on a wide range of financial market indicators.


Keywords: International Standards on Auditing, Financial Market Indicators, Financial Consequences, Diffusion of Innovation Theory, Stock Market.

JEL Classification: G3; G34; G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Elmghaamez, Ibrahim and Gerged, Ali Meftah and Ntim, Collins G., Financial Market Consequences of Early Adoption of International Standards on Auditing: International Evidence (April 22, 2020). Elmghaamez, I., Gerged, A.M., and Ntim, C.G. (2020) ‘Financial Market Consequences of Early Adoption of International Standards on Auditing: International Evidence’, Managerial Auditing Journal, 33(6/7), 558-585. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3768152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Adereti , M Sanni
The adoption of international financial reporting standards and the earnings quality of first bank of Nigeria Plc
International Journal of Economics , volume 4 , issue 10 , p. 757 - 768 Posted: 2016
N H Akman
The effect of IFRS edoption on financial disclosure: Does culture still play a role?
American International Journal of Contemporary Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 17 Posted: 2011
Q Al-Awaqleh
The factors that influence the adoption of the international standards on auditing in Jordan
International Management Review , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 28 - 34 Posted: 2010
A Ali , S Akbar , P Ormrod
Impact of international financial reporting standards on the profit and equity of AIM-listed companies in the UK
Accounting Forum , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
564
RANK
826,938
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies