Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of ASIC Enforcement Against Auditors and Liquidators

Company and Securities Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 2, 2021, pp. 112-137

28 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2021

Ian Ramsay

Melbourne Law School - University of Melbourne

Miranda Webster

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: October 15, 2020

Abstract

The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has emphasised the importance of its enforcement role in relation to auditors and liquidators. However, there is little detailed analysis of what enforcement action ASIC has undertaken against auditors and liquidators. Using several sources (ASIC enforcement reports, ASIC media releases, ASIC regulation of registered liquidator reports, and reports of the Companies Auditors Disciplinary Board and its predecessor), the authors analyse ASIC enforcement outcomes against auditors and liquidators between July 2011 and December 2019. The findings include (1) a particularly strong emphasis by ASIC on negotiated enforcement outcomes and administrative remedies rather than court based outcomes; (2) within these negotiated outcomes, a strategy to employ undertakings regarding professional education and independent review of the auditor’s or liquidator’s practice with the objective of improving the practice; (3) a particular enforcement focus on self-managed superannuation fund auditors; and (4) very limited use by ASIC of the Companies Auditors Disciplinary Board.

Keywords: enforcement; auditors; liquidators; Australian Securities and Investments Commission

Suggested Citation:

Ramsay, Ian and Webster, Miranda, An Analysis of ASIC Enforcement Against Auditors and Liquidators (October 15, 2020). Company and Securities Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 2, 2021, pp. 112-137, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
207 References
ASIC has counted an appeal outcome as one civil enforcement outcome -despite this applying to three liquidators: ASIC, 'ASICs appeal upheld in Walton liquidators independence case' (Media release , volume 18 Posted: 2014-07
Report , volume 476 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Report , volume 513 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Report , volume 615
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,105
RANK
281,840
207 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Melbourne Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies