Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual Roles and Blurred Identities: A Framing Contest between Professional Associations in a Local Strategic Action Field

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2021

Georg Loscher

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Lukas Loehlein

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Hansrudi Lenz

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines professional associations’ local responses to global demands of audit standardization. Our longitudinal study from 1998 to 2018 analyses how professional associations of the German audit profession engaged in an intense framing contest over the adoption of external quality controls. Drawing on the concept of strategic action field and the literature on framing, we unpack how the gap between large audit firms and small audit firms increasingly undermined the capacity of the traditional professional associations to fulfill their dual role of governance and representation. We unveil how their failed attempt to maintain the image of a single, unified profession ultimately led to the creation of a new professional association representing the “small auditor” professional, which successfully, albeit temporarily, took control over the field of German auditing. Our findings suggest that the passivity of small audit firms in the process of translating global modes of audit regulation should not be presumed. Rather, we provide insight into how small audit firms can rebuild their own distinct identity by actively responding to waves of global audit regulation. Doing so, and contrary to prior research, our case suggests that governance units within strategic action fields are not necessarily aligned with the interests of the most powerful field actors.

Keywords: strategic action field, professional association, framing strategies, audit profession, internal governance unit

Suggested Citation:

Loscher, Georg and Loehlein, Lukas and Lenz, Hansrudi, Dual Roles and Blurred Identities: A Framing Contest between Professional Associations in a Local Strategic Action Field (November 30, 2018). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
B Becker
Es geht um Beraterhonorare in Millionenhöhe Posted: 2018-06-04
S D Becker , M Messner , U Schäffer
The interplay of core and peripheral actors in the trajectory of an accounting innovation: Insights from Beyond Budgeting
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2020
Crossref
R D Benford , D A Snow
Framing processes and social movements: An overview and assessment
Annual Review of Sociology , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Bourdieu
Outline of a theory of practice Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
661
RANK
849,077
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies