Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters in the Audit Report: Early U.S. Evidence

107 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2021 Last revised: 7 Sep 2023

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: June 12, 2021

Abstract

This study contributes to the audit reporting literature by examining how disclosure of critical audit matters (CAMs) in the audit report varies with perceived litigation risk and financial reporting quality. Consistent with the litigation hypothesis (Skinner, 1994), I find a positive association between litigation risk and the number of CAMs in the audit report, suggesting that auditors try to preempt negative consequences from shareholder lawsuits by reporting more CAMs when litigation risk is higher. The results also show the number of reported CAMs increases when financial reporting quality decreases, suggesting that audit reports reflect the inherent quality of financial statements. Further, in presence of high litigation risk, the CAM language exhibits lower readability as the quality of financial reporting decreases. A detailed examination shows the lower readability is driven by the auditor response rather than CAM description, consistent with the obfuscation hypothesis (Bloomfield, 2008). Overall, these results are consistent with auditors touching upon issues they are legally obligated to without necessarily providing clarity to financial statement users. This study also contributes to audit fees literature by showing that audit fees and audit report delays are positively associated with the number of reported CAMs, suggesting that CAMs increase auditor effort and costs.

Keywords: Critical Audit Matters, Audit Report, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, Audit Fees, Disclosure Readability.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sulcaj, Valbona, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters in the Audit Report: Early U.S. Evidence (June 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3771081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,654
RANK
121,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies