Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Nonaudit Services on Capital Markets

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Vol 27, Issue 1, 2012

Posted: 15 Mar 2021

Seunghan Nam

New York Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 31, 2021

Abstract

The framers of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) presume that nonaudit services (NASs) lower the quality of financial statements, so they have prohibited auditors from offering most NASs. In addition, regulators believe that NASs may cause the auditor to be perceived as “dependent” in appearance, thus increasing information risk, even if they have no impact on the quality of financial statements. The authors investigate two hypotheses using pre-SOX data. First, they ask whether the proportion of NASs fees to total fees has a positive or negative association with the ability of financial statements to predict a firm’s future cash flows, which can be considered a measure of the quality of the statements. Second, they ask whether the proportion has a negative or positive association with the cost of capital (COC) and the bid/ask spread, controlling for the predictability. The COC and the bid/ask spread serve as proxies for information risk. Contrary to the proponents of prohibiting NAS, the authors find that the proportion of NASs fees to total fees has a positive association with predictability. Controlling for the quality of financial statements, NASs still have a negative association with the COC and the bid/ask spread as proxies for information risk. These findings suggest that NASs improve the quality of financial statements and reduce information risk.

Suggested Citation:

Nam, Seunghan, The Impact of Nonaudit Services on Capital Markets (January 31, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Vol 27, Issue 1, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3776547
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
211
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies