Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards Algorithm Auditing: A Survey on Managing Legal, Ethical and Technological Risks of AI, ML and Associated Algorithms

31 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2021

Adriano Koshiyama

Department of Computer Science, University College London

Emre Kazim

Holistic AI; University College London

Philip Treleaven

University College London

Pete Rai

Cisco Systems

Lukasz Szpruch

University of Edinburgh - School of Mathematics; The Alan Turing Institute; Simtopia

Giles Pavey

Unilever - Unilever PLC London

Ghazi Ahamat

Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation

Franziska Leutner

University College London

Randy Goebel

University of Alberta

Andrew Knight

Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors

Janet Adams

Ainstein AI

Christina Hitrova

Technical University Munich

Jeremy Barnett

Resilience Partners

Parashkev Nachev

University College London

David Barber

University College London

Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic

University of London - Department of Psychology

Konstantin Klemmer

University of Warwick

Miro Gregorovic

London Stock Exchange

Shakeel Khan

ValidateAI

Elizabeth Lomas

University College London

Date Written: January 2021

Abstract

Business reliance on algorithms are becoming ubiquitous, and companies are increasingly concerned about their algorithms causing major financial or reputational damage. High-profile cases include VW’s Dieselgate scandal with fines worth of $34.69B, Knight Capital’s bankruptcy (~$450M) by a glitch in its algorithmic trading system, and Amazon’s AI recruiting tool being scrapped after showing bias against women. In response, governments are legislating and imposing bans, regulators fining companies, and the Judiciary discussing potentially making algorithms artificial “persons” in Law.

Soon there will be ‘billions’ of algorithms making decisions with minimal human intervention; from autonomous vehicles and finance, to medical treatment, employment, and legal decisions. Indeed, scaling to problems beyond the human is a major point of using such algorithms in the first place. As with Financial Audit, governments, business and society will require Algorithm Audit; formal assurance that algorithms are legal, ethical and safe. A new industry is envisaged: Auditing and Assurance of Algorithms (cf. Data privacy), with the remit to professionalize and industrialize AI, ML and associated algorithms.

The stakeholders range from those working on policy and regulation, to industry practitioners and developers. We also anticipate the nature and scope of the auditing levels and framework presented will inform those interested in systems of governance and compliance to regulation/standards. Our goal in this paper is to survey the key areas necessary to perform auditing and assurance, and instigate the debate in this novel area of research and practice.


Keywords: Robustness, Explainability, Privacy, Bias, Fairness, Transparency, Accountability, Governance, Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Koshiyama, Adriano and Kazim, Emre and Treleaven, Philip and Rai, Pete and Szpruch, Lukasz and Pavey, Giles and Ahamat, Ghazi and Leutner, Franziska and Goebel, Randy and Knight, Andrew and Adams, Janet and Hitrova, Christina and Barnett, Jeremy and Nachev, Parashkev and Barber, David and Chamorro-Premuzic, Tomas and Klemmer, Konstantin and Gregorovic, Miro and Khan, Shakeel and Lomas, Elizabeth, Towards Algorithm Auditing: A Survey on Managing Legal, Ethical and Technological Risks of AI, ML and Associated Algorithms (January 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3778998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3778998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,572
RANK
3,376
68 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies