Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Are All Auditors the Same? KAM Topic Selection and Audit Procedure Choices in the UK

Journal of International Accounting Research, forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 24 Mar 2025

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Jing Xue

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Ling Na Belinda Yau

The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether and how audit partners differ in the auditing of key audit matters (KAMs) in expanded audit reports in the United Kingdom. Using hand-collected audit report data and manual categorization, we first present descriptive evidence of audit partners’ heterogeneity in their KAM topic choices and the corresponding audit procedures. We then document that when an audit partner rotates within the same audit firm, the incoming partner tends to change KAMs and the corresponding audit work, and the characteristics of the incoming partners affect audit judgment. In addition, we show that heterogeneous KAM selection and audit work choices are associated with variations in audit outcomes. Finally, we provide evidence that audit partners exhibit different, yet consistent, audit traits. 

Keywords: audit report, partner style, KAM, audit procedure, reporting style

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Xue, Jing and Yau, Ling Na Belinda and Wu, Donghui,

Are All Auditors the Same? KAM Topic Selection and Audit Procedure Choices in the UK

(February 28, 2025). Journal of International Accounting Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female audit partners and extended audit reporting: UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2021
M Al-Mulla , M E Bradbury
Auditor, client, and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2022
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
177,685
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies