Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perception of Auditors Working Environment and Audit Quality in Nigeria

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, 2021

26 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Yisa Ayinla Adeniji

Yaba College of Technology - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 8, 2021

Abstract

Over the years several reforms have been introduced by government and various institutions charged with the responsibility of regulating and enforcing audit failure. This study therefore investigated the perception of auditors’ working environments proxied by top management support training and developing, physical working environment and autonomy to implement audit techniques on audit quality in Nigeria. The study adopted survey research design, collecting relevant data with the aid of an adopted structured questionnaire. The population comprised of auditors in both private and public sector with offices located in Lagos State. Purposive sampling techniques was adopted to select 110 auditors. The instrument was validated using Cronbach alpha reliability coefficient of the constructs ranged from 0.647 to 0.899. The descriptive and inferential statistics. The study found that auditors working environment had significant influence on audit quality (Adj: R2= 0.344, F (4, 104) = 13.656; <0.001). The study concluded that top management support training and development, physical working environment and autonomy to implement audit techniques learnt during training positively influences audit quality. It was recommended that management in charge of audit generally take cognizance of top management support, training and development of auditors, physical working environment and autonomy to implement audit techniques as a premise towards improving audit quality.

Keywords: audit quality, management support, physical working environment, training.

Suggested Citation:

Adeniji, Yisa Ayinla, Perception of Auditors Working Environment and Audit Quality in Nigeria (February 8, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3781584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
H &amp; Al Al-Khaddash , R Nawas
Factors affecting the quality of auditing. The case of Jordanian commercial Banks
International Journal of Business and social science , volume 4 , issue 11 , p. 206 - 222 Posted: 2013
E B Al-Maraei , Alswidi , A Fadzil , F H
The effect of the internal audit and firm performance. A proposed research framework. International review of management and marketing , volume 4 , p. 34 - 44 Posted: 2014
G F Al-Matarneh
Factors determining the internal audit quality in banks: Empirical evidence from Jordan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 1 , issue 73 , p. 110 - 119 Posted: 2011
A Al-Shail , T A Turki
A theoretical discussion of internal audit effectiveness in Kuwait Industrial SMEs
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 116 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
322,924
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies