Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Banker's Oath And Financial Advice

54 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 3 Jun 2021

Utz Weitzel

VU University Amsterdam

Michael Kirchler

University of Innsbruck

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 12, 2021

Abstract

Financial misbehavior is widespread and costly. The Dutch government legally requires every employee in the financial sector to take a Hippocratic oath, the so-called "banker's oath." We investigate whether moral nudges that directly and indirectly remind financial advisers of their oath affect their service. In a large-scale audit study, professional auditors confronted 201 Dutch financial advisers with a conflict of interest. We find that when auditors apply a moral nudge, referring to the banker's oath, advisers are less likely to prioritize bank's interests. In additional prediction tasks, we find that Dutch regulators expect stronger effects of the oath than observed.

Keywords: experimental finance, audit study, banker's oath, moral nudges, financial advice

Suggested Citation:

Weitzel, Utz and Kirchler, Michael, The Banker's Oath And Financial Advice (February 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3784499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Santosh Anagol , Shawn Cole , Shayak Sarkar
Understanding the advice of commissionsmotivated agents: Evidence from the indian life insurance market
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Bergstresser , John M R Daniel , Peter Chalmers , Tufano
Assessing the costs and benefits of brokers in the mutual fund industry
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 4129 - 4156 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Marianne Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Are emily and greg more employable than lakisha and jamal? a field experiment on labor market discrimination
American Economic Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 991 - 1013 Posted: 2004
Crossref
John Beshears , James J Choi , David Laibson , Brigitte C Madrian , Katherine L Milkman
The effect of providing peer information on retirement savings decisions
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 1161 - 1201 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
291,291
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies