Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Probabilistic Audits and Misreporting – The Influence of Audit Process Design on Employee Behavior

European Accounting Review

48 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Corinna Ewelt-Knauer

Department of Finance & Accounting

Anja Schwering

University of Potsdam

Sandra Winkelmann

University of Giessen

Date Written: February 20, 2021

Abstract

We investigate how the design of audit processes influences employees’ reporting decisions. We focus specifically on detective employee audits for which several employees are randomly selected after a defined period to audit their ex-post behavior. We investigate two design features of the audit process, namely, employee anonymity and process transparency, and analyze their impact on misreporting. Overall, we find that both components influence the extent of individuals’ misreporting. A nonanonymous audit decreases performance misreporting more than an audit in which the employee remains anonymous. Furthermore, the high incidence of performance misreporting in the case of anonymous audits can be decreased when the process transparency is low. Thus, our study informs accountants about how the two design features of employee anonymity and transparency of the audit process can be used to constrain performance misreporting to increase the efficiency of audits.

Keywords: performance misreporting, employee audits, employee anonymity, process transparency

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ewelt-Knauer, Corinna and Schwering, Anja and Winkelmann, Sandra, Probabilistic Audits and Misreporting – The Influence of Audit Process Design on Employee Behavior (February 20, 2021). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3791507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Report to the nations: 2018 Global study on occupational fraud and abuse. Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2018
E S Bernstein
The transparency paradox
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 216 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M C Bolino , J A Varela , B Bande , W H Turnley
The impact of impressionmanagement tactics on supervisor ratings of organizational citizenship behavior
Journal of Organizational Behavior , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 297 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R M Bowen , S Rajgopal , M Venkatachalam
Accounting discretion, corporate governance, and firm performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 351 - 405 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
RANK
584,242
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies