Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research

127 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2021 Last revised: 10 May 2023

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 9, 2023

Abstract

Analytical auditing research provides underlying theory for the economic analysis of auditing. Despite its importance, there have been no papers that provide a comprehensive review of research conducted in this area. This paper reviews existing analytical auditing research. I identify the assumptions and key economic forces addressed in selected papers and provide suggestions for future research by summarizing and critiquing the existing research. I develop a framework that incorporates the demand for and supply of audits and considers the economic incentives and strategic interactions of individuals or organizations involved in the audits. Using this framework, I
examine three questions: Why do we need financial statement audits? What determines the assurance production and reporting? How do parties interact within an audit and in markets? This paper intends to stimulate further analytical auditing research and help guide research using other methodologies.

Keywords: review; analytical auditing; strategic audit; markets; regulation

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ye, Minlei, The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research (May 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
231 References
Nelson
Hillegeist (1999), Radhakrishnan (1999), Zhang and Thoman Posted: 1986
Deng
Bleibtreu and Stefani Posted: 1986
Supply Accountability Ethics Supply Accountability Reputation Datar and Alles Posted: 1999
Fellingham
Supply Production Detection Balachandran and Zoltners Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,026
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,334
RANK
50,551
10 Citations
231 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies