Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
iXBRL Early Adoption, Audit Efforts and Audit Resource Allocation

Posted: 15 Mar 2021 Last revised: 11 Nov 2021

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Stephanie Walton

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Mengmeng Wang

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Greensboro

Yiyang Zhang

Youngstown State University - Lariccia School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 10, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how inline XBRL (iXBRL) early adoption impacts auditor effort and audit
resource allocation. While iXBRL can make financial reporting information accessible to a wide
range of external stakeholders, the presentation format change should have no impact on auditor
behavior. Audit firms note that presenting XBRL metadata on top of audited financial statements
could lead to an expectation gap where external stakeholders believe that the inline tags have been
audited despite no procedures being required. We find that iXBRL early adoption is associated
with higher audit fees. Further, among non-adopting firms, engaging with an audit partner with an
iXBRL client(s) is associated with a negative audit effort spillover effect. Non-adopting clients
with a partner exposed to iXBRL clients are associated with a greater likelihood of a financial
misstatement and filing financial reports late. We provide timely information on iXBRL adoption’s
unintended effect on audit outcomes.

Keywords: inline XBRL; audit effort; knowledge spillover; early adoption

JEL Classification: G

Suggested Citation:

Masli, Adi and Walton, Stephanie and Wang, Mengmeng and Zhang, Yiyang, iXBRL Early Adoption, Audit Efforts and Audit Resource Allocation (November 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801990
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies