Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Weathering the Weather: Does Extreme Weather Affect the Cost of an Audit?

59 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021 Last revised: 15 Jul 2023

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Zhe (Michael) Guo

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: June 12, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of extreme weather on the cost of an audit. We measure the impact as the number of extreme weather days, namely, how many days per year a firm experiences an extreme weather event (e.g., drought, flood, storm, wildfire) in its metropolitan statistical area (MSA). We first find that auditors charge significantly higher fees for firms with more extreme weather days in the past, suggesting that auditors consider previous extreme weather exposure a material business risk. No single weather type dominates this finding. Second, auditors charge higher fees when firms experience abnormal increases in extreme weather days contemporaneous with the audit. Fees increase even more when firms experience unanticipated weather events in the audit season (after the fiscal yearend but before the audit report date). Third, audit fees are higher when the auditor and the firm reside in the same MSA, suggesting that local auditors act conservatively in assessing the impact of extreme weather on a client audit. Lastly, as evidence of a channel linking extreme weather and audit fees, we find that firms with more extreme weather days in the audit season record more asset write-downs and are likelier to report a financial restatement.

Keywords: Audit cost, audit risk, audit effort, extreme weather, audit fees, metropolitan statistical area

JEL Classification: Q54, Q56, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Guo, Zhe (Michael) and Sun, Estelle Yuan, Weathering the Weather: Does Extreme Weather Affect the Cost of an Audit? (June 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3802059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3802059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,397
RANK
128,474
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies