Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputation and Audit Outcomes: Evidence from CPA Fellowship Designation

45 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021 Last revised: 3 Dec 2021

Wanfu Li

Nanjing University of Finance & Economics

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Yu Wang

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

Reputation has long been recognized as an important mechanism to mitigate opportunistic behavior in the audit market. While prior studies show that extreme audit failures lead to erosion in auditor reputation, the question of whether and how reputation motivates auditors to provide high-quality audits remains unanswered. We exploit the Chinese audit market, where a group of Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) is awarded the title of “Fellow CPAs.” Representing the highest professional recognition not directly related to their audit competence, the fellowship designation enhances auditors’ reputations in an observable manner. We find that auditors improve audit quality in terms of audit reporting and audited financial statements after the fellow-CPA designation. The designation is also followed by several market consequences, including higher audit-fee premiums commanded and larger audit-market shares gained by the fellow CPAs, and higher market valuation of earnings audited by the fellow CPAs. By ruling out auditor competence as an alternative explanation, our study provides novel evidence on how the reputation mechanism shapes auditor behavior and matters to capital market participants.

Keywords: reputation effect, auditors, audit quality, fellow CPAs

JEL Classification: L14, M21, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wanfu and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Wang, Yu and Wu, Donghui, Reputation and Audit Outcomes: Evidence from CPA Fellowship Designation (March 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3802307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3802307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Is audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG
Steal the Exam" scandal. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 98 Posted: 2022
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,855
RANK
157,299
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies