Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spatiality and accounting: The case of female segregation in audit firms

Agrizzi, Dila, Teerooven Soobaroyen, and Abeer Alsalloom. "Spatiality and accounting: The case of female segregation in audit firms." Accounting, Organizations and Society,

Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Dila Agrizzi

University of Essex

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

abeer yousef alsalloom

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 21, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to examine how organisational ‘space’ is implicated in gendering practices in auditing and contributes to impeding the entry or progress of women within the profession. Specifically, we investigate how women auditors experience a formal segregation in the workplace in Big Four audit firms located in Saudi Arabia. Drawing upon and developing Lefebvre’s (1991) work on the ‘production of space’, we conceptualise spatiality both in terms of the physical environment and the social relations and subjective processes within these space(s). Our case reveals the interplay between the discourses and codifications of the ‘female-only section’ as a ‘well-intentioned’ locale of domination and control of female labour conceived by the State and firm managers, and how women auditors experience the physical manifestations of prohibition and divide, the hindrance of audit work and productivity and a constant anxiety about non-compliance to cultural diktats. Furthermore, the disconnect between professional activity and its attendant social relations, and forced homogenisation borne out of politico-religious rationales underlying the State’s spatial planning policies generate a gendered space which constrains the participation and development of women in the profession.

Keywords: SpatialityWorkplace, Accounting profession,Audit firms,Saudi Arabia,Gendered space

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Agrizzi, Dila and Soobaroyen, Teerooven and alsalloom, abeer yousef, Spatiality and accounting: The case of female segregation in audit firms (March 21, 2021). Agrizzi, Dila, Teerooven Soobaroyen, and Abeer Alsalloom. "Spatiality and accounting: The case of female segregation in audit firms." Accounting, Organizations and Society, , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3809208
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies