Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reaction to the Audit Engagement Partner Disclosure Rule

Park, H. (2021), "Investor reaction to the audit engagement partner disclosure rule", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 36 No. 1, pp. 167-190. https://doi.org/10.1108/MAJ-11-2020-2893

38 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021

Hyungshin Park

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Date Written: March 26, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to examine whether investors perceive the adoption of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Rule 3211, which mandates disclosure of the identity of audit engagement partners for the US-listed companies, as providing net benefits to the companies. We identify 33 events leading up to the adoption of the PCAOB rule and examines the market reaction around these events and find positive abnormal market-wide returns in response to events that increase the likelihood of adopting the mandate. These positive returns are relatively stronger among companies with higher audit risk and companies with high-quality auditors. Our results indicate that market participants expect that the overall benefits from the audit engagement partner disclosure rule outweigh the associated costs for average firms and in particular for firms with high audit risk and high-quality auditors.


Keywords: Market reaction, Auditor quality, PCAOB, Audit risk, Form AP, Rule 3211

Suggested Citation:

Park, Hyungshin, Investor Reaction to the Audit Engagement Partner Disclosure Rule (March 26, 2021). Park, H. (2021), "Investor reaction to the audit engagement partner disclosure rule", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 36 No. 1, pp. 167-190. https://doi.org/10.1108/MAJ-11-2020-2893, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
RANK
792,195
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies