Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leadership Ability: Labor Market Outcomes, Organizational Benefits, and Talent Management in the Auditing Profession

74 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Juha-Pekka Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, we first examine how auditors’ leadership ability affects their labor market outcomes. Using unique Swedish military data on qualified auditors (CPAs), we show that auditors’ leadership ability, measured at the age around 18, is a strong predictor of their income and career success. However, our result also suggests that the audit labor market compensates for auditors’ leadership ability at a much later stage than the general labor market does. Second, to examine why the audit labor market rewards leadership ability, we find that leadership ability significantly enhances auditors’ commercial performance, but we do not find convincing evidence that leadership ability is associated with audit quality. Third, at audit firm organizational level, we find that auditors’ leadership ability significantly benefits audit firm performance measured as client portfolio size and audit firm profitability. Finally, we investigate the extent of talent attraction/retention within the audit profession. We find that the auditing profession attracts better talent than the general labor market, and that Big 4 firms attract better talent than non-Big4 firms. However, the auditing profession loses a large share of talent over time, even though the talents of those who stay and those who leave are, on average, similar.
JEL Classification: J3, M42, M5

Keywords: Leadership ability, auditing, income, career development

JEL Classification: M42, J3, M5

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Ting and Kallunki, Juha-Pekka and Nilsson, Henrik and Vanstraelen, Ann, Leadership Ability: Labor Market Outcomes, Organizational Benefits, and Talent Management in the Auditing Profession (November 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
311,586
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Consequences of Leadership eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies