Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Joint Audits on Audit Quality and Audit Costs: A Game-Theoretical Explanation for Contradictory Empirical Results

68 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Henrike Biehl

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Christopher Bleibtreu

BI Norwegian Business School

Ulrike Stefani

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 30, 2021

Abstract

Using a model of a joint audit (JA) with a proportionate liability rule, we analyze how the similarity of the two auditors in their client fit affects their free riding incentives and the synergy effect realized. We find that audit quality in a JA is high (low) and audit costs are low (high) if both auditors fit the client’s characteristics similarly well (if the auditors are dissimilar and one auditor therefore free-rides). A JA can lead to higher (lower) audit quality and lower (higher) audit costs than a single audit (SA) if the synergy effect is sufficiently high (low). Imbalances in the allocation of the audit work can increase (decrease) audit quality and decrease (increase) costs if the auditors’ similarity is low (high). A shared audit in case the auditors’ similarity is relatively low can lead to lower (higher) audit quality and higher (lower) audit costs than an SA (JA).

Keywords: audit regulation, joint audit, shared audit, audit quality, audit costs, coordination, free riding, synergy

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Biehl, Henrike and Bleibtreu, Christopher and Stefani, Ulrike, Effects of Joint Audits on Audit Quality and Audit Costs: A Game-Theoretical Explanation for Contradictory Empirical Results (March 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3816011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3816011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
RANK
95,379
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies