Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market for Audit Services: The Role of Market Power

Journal of International Accounting Research

Posted: 7 Apr 2021

Tracy Gu

The University of Hong Kong, HKU Business School

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Michael T. Stein

Old Dominion University

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 7, 2021

Abstract

The market for audit services has been the subject of extensive academic research since the 1970’s. The prevailing view is that audit markets are characterized by tiers of suppliers (Big 4 vs. non-Big 4, and industry specialists vs. non-specialists) where the upper-tier suppliers produce and sell a systematically higher level of assurance, while competition among suppliers within tiers is essentially perfect and a uniform price prevails within the submarkets. We discuss three papers that challenge this orthodoxy. These papers argue and find that the price of an audit is essentially unique to each (auditor, client) pair and that this price depends on both audit firm size and client size. Furthermore, audit firm size is linked with the firm’s capital investments which enhance auditor efficiency and market power. We conclude that audit markets are atomistic and that local market power is an important determinant of audit prices and audit fees.

Keywords: audit markets; pricing; market power; capital investments

JEL Classification: M41, D40

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Tracy (Ti) and Simunic, Dan A. and Stein, Michael T. and Ye, Minlei and Zhang, Ping, The Market for Audit Services: The Role of Market Power (April 7, 2021). Journal of International Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3821351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3821351
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Production, Market Structure & Pricing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies