Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles-Based Accounting Standards and Audit Outcomes: Empirical Evidence

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2021 Last revised: 18 Aug 2021

Myojung Cho

Pace University

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Date Written: August 18, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to empirically examine the relations between audit outcomes and accounting standard design (principles-based vs. rules-based) for US firms. Considering that audit outcomes may vary with audit risk, which may differ under different accounting standards, we examine and find that audit risk and audit fees are lower when client firms rely more on principles-based standards. Next, we find that principles-based standards are associated with a lower likelihood of receiving a going concern opinion and with a shorter audit report lag. However, for firms that rely more on principles-based standards and have greater incentives to engage in earnings management, audit fees are higher. Collectively, our results inform the FASB, the SEC, and the PCAOB of the potential benefits of using principles-based standards with respect to audit outcomes and, more broadly, provide evidence on the role of accounting standard design in auditing.

Keywords: principles-based standards, audit fees, audit risk, going concern, audit report lag

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Myojung and Krishnan, Gopal, Principles-Based Accounting Standards and Audit Outcomes: Empirical Evidence (August 18, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3821688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3821688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
176,143
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies