Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Facets of the Audit Function at Banks

TCS, 2020, https://www.tcs.com/new-age-audit-of-banks

6 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2021 Last revised: 3 May 2021

Jm Kumar

Tata Consultancy Services (TCS)

Date Written: April 24, 2020

Abstract

Technology is driving change across different banking functions and audit is no exception.

Only a few years ago, bank audits were conducted using traditional, mainly manual, processes. But, digitalization of banking has led to technology making inroads into the audit function as well.

That said, we feel that the use of technology tools in the audit function has been rather limited. Going forward, banks must opt for more extensive digital technology adoption in this area to keep pace with their digital transformation initiatives.

This paper discusses the applicability of some digital technologies in the audit function.

Keywords: future of audit, impact of information technology on auditing, the future of internal audit

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

KUMAR, JM, Emerging Facets of the Audit Function at Banks (April 24, 2020). TCS, 2020, https://www.tcs.com/new-age-audit-of-banks, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
312
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies