Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Quality and Timeliness of Limited Review Report on Perceived Interim Financial Reporting Quality during COVID-19 Pandemic Crisis: Evidence from Egypt

Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches, Faculty of Commerce – Damietta, University, Vol. 2, No. 2, Part 1, 2021, pp. 25-74.

59 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2021

Hebatallah Abd El Salam Badawy

Alexandria University; Egypt Japan University of Science and Technology

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

In order for financial information to be used by investors to take informed decisions, it should be characterized by its relevance and faithful representation. In times of crisis, investors’ demand and reliance on financial information will be higher in order to reduce the level of uncertainty and information asymmetry and increase their confidence in management’s performance. The objective of this study is to investigate and analyze the impact of quality of limited review reports, measured by adding a key audit matters paragraph (KAM hereafter) related to COVID-19 pandemic to the limited review report and its timeliness, measured by the limited review report lag, on the perceived quality of interim financial reports issued at the end of the third quarter of 2020.

Based on a sample of 95 firms listed on the Egyptian stock exchange (EGX hereafter), the researcher found that the timeliness of limited review reports is positively and significantly associated with the perceived quality of financial reporting from the investors’ point of view. Investors appreciate and value the timeliness of financial reports and the limited review report during COVID-19 pandemic crisis time. Concerning the impact of the quality of limited review report, the researcher didn’t find evidence regarding the informational value of KAM paragraph and its effect on the perceived quality of interim financial reports. This might be because adding KAM paragraph on COVID-19 pandemic is not firm specific and at the same time, not presenting additional information to investors other than that available in the interim financial reports.

Keywords: Limited review report quality, Interim financial reports, Limited review report lag, COVID-19 pandemic, Egypt.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Badawy, Hebatallah, The Effect of Quality and Timeliness of Limited Review Report on Perceived Interim Financial Reporting Quality during COVID-19 Pandemic Crisis: Evidence from Egypt (July 1, 2021). Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches, Faculty of Commerce – Damietta, University, Vol. 2, No. 2, Part 1, 2021, pp. 25-74. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3835679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
368,259
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies