Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Resilience of Audit Firms - Evidence from the Outbreak of COVID-19

51 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021 Last revised: 22 Jun 2021

Jesper Haga

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Finance and Statistics

Kim Ittonen

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the organizational resilience of audit firms during the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The unexpected restrictions to travelling and on-site working imposed unanticipated barriers for auditors in Hong Kong. Management research suggests that companies with more organizational resilience can respond to and learn from unexpected situations and resume expected performance levels or even create new opportunities. Using a sample of firms listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEX), we examine auditor-client characteristics contributing to organizational resilience. Firstly, our full-sample results suggest that larger auditors, industry specialists and auditors with closer relationships to clients have more timely audit reports during the COVID-19 outbreak. Second, analyzing a subsample of companies that initially had to publish unaudited financial statements, we find evidence that industry expertise and longer auditor-client relationship significantly reduced the need for year-end audit adjustments. These findings provide unique evidence of audit firm characteristics associated with capacity for organizational resilience and maintaining expected performance levels. Moreover, examining auditor resignations we find that larger auditors were more likely to offload clients, whereas industry specialists were more likely to keep the clients that operate within their specialization. Finally, we do not find any evidence that investors would price having more resilient auditors. To conclude, our findings indicate that during the unexpected outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic larger auditors, industry specialists, and auditors with closer ties to the clients, exhibit higher levels of resilience and are able maintain the expected performance levels.

Keywords: Audit firms, Organizational resilience, COVID-19, Audit quality, Audit report lag, Audit adjustments, Auditor resignations

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Haga, Jesper and Ittonen, Kim, Organizational Resilience of Audit Firms - Evidence from the Outbreak of COVID-19 (June 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J H Choi , J B Kim , A A Qiu , Y Zang
Geographic proximity between auditor and client: How does it impact audit quality?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 72 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Chu , A Florou , P F Pope
Auditor University Education: Does it Matter?
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
Crossref
J C Collins , J I Porras
Built to last: Successful habits of visionary companies Posted: 1994
D L Coutu
How resilience works
Harvard Business Review , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 46 - 55 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,743
RANK
172,550
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies