Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality comes cheap: Evidence from auditing in Islamic banks

37 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021 Last revised: 27 Jul 2022

Vasileios Pappas

University of Surrey - Surrey Business School

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: July 4, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the audit market in Islamic banks, focusing on the pricing and the quality of audit services. To our knowledge, academic research has not yet examined the role of external auditors in Islamic banking. We argue that significant differences between Islamic and conventional banks, most notably in terms of activities allowed, corporate governance structure and ethical aspects of the business model, may lead to different audit outcomes. We find a fee discount of approximately 50% for Islamic banks relative to conventional banks, after controlling for the cross-sectional determinants of fees. This result is in line with the view that the risks borne by auditors are lower in Islamic banks than in conventional banks. In addition, we document that the fee discount for Islamic banks is lower if auditors have higher expertise in Islamic banking. On the other hand, we do not observe significant differences in audit quality between Islamic and conventional banks. Therefore, importantly, the fee discount for Islamic banks comes at no cost for the quality of audit services.

Keywords: Islamic banking, audit fees, audit quality

JEL Classification: G21, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Pappas, Vasileios and Perotti, Pietro, Quality comes cheap: Evidence from auditing in Islamic banks (July 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3845365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3845365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
Abdel Karim , R A
The nature and rationale of a conceptual framework for financial reporting by Islamic banks
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 100 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 1995
O Abdelsalam , P Dimitropoulos , M Elnahass , Leventis
Earnings management behaviors under different monitoring mechanisms: The case of Islamic and conventional banks
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization & Organization , volume 132 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 2016
M Abdul-Majid , D S Saal , G Battisti
Efficiency and total factor productivity change of Malaysian commercial banks
The Service Industries Journal , volume 31 , issue 13 , p. 2117 - 2143 Posted: 2011
P Abedifar , S M Ebrahim , P Molyneux , A Tarazi
Islamic banking and finance: Recent empirical literature and directions for future research
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 29 , issue 4 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
RANK
560,422
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies