Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit-Firm Profitability: Determinants and Implications for Audit Outcomes

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 21 Feb 2023

Jeff Zeyun Chen

Texas Christian University

Anastasios Elemes

ESSEC Business School

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

We use a novel dataset that links audit-firm and client-firm financial statement information from the U.K.’s largest audit firms to examine drivers of audit-firm profitability and its implications for audit outcomes. We first explore the determinants of audit-firm profitability and conclude that Big-4 and non-Big-4 audit firms have fundamentally different profitability structures. Big-4 firms have higher profit margins than non-Big-4 firms. Furthermore, Big-4 profitability increases with client size and complexity, while non-Big-4 profitability is higher for smaller, private-firm clients. Next, we examine the relation between audit-firm profitability and audit outcomes. Using a battery of alternative outcome measures, we find that more profitable audit firms deliver higher audit quality. In supplemental analyses we show that the positive relation between audit-firm profitability and audit outcomes is generally stronger for more influential and illiquid clients (i.e., when auditors are exposed to more litigation risk). Our inferences are robust to several endogeneity controls, such as using an instrumental variables approach, controlling for client-firm and audit-firm fixed effects, employing lead-lag and changes specifications, and assessing bias from correlated omitted variables. Our study contributes to the literature by being the first to provide insights into audit-firm profitability and examine in detail its implications for audit quality.

Keywords: Auditing, Audit Firms, Audit-Firm Profitability, Key Audit Matters, Private Firms, Audit Quality, Audit Effort

JEL Classification: G30, M10, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jeff Zeyun and Elemes, Anastasios and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Yoon, Aaron, Audit-Firm Profitability: Determinants and Implications for Audit Outcomes (January 13, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3848871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
T R Beard
Bankruptcy and care choice
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 626 - 634 Posted: 1990
J A Chevalier , D S Scharfstein
Capital market imperfections and countercyclical markups: Theory and evidence
American Economic Review , issue 86 , p. 703 - 725 Posted: 1996
S Fazzari , R G Hubbard , B C Petersen
Financing constraints and corporate investment
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 1 , p. 141 - 206 Posted: 1988
V Maksimovic , S Titman
Financial policy and reputation for product quality
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 200 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,570
RANK
55,609
5 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies