Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting

Contemporary Accounting Research 38 (4): 3214-3253.

62 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Vlad-Andrei Porumb

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Yasemin Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu

University of Groningen

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Reggy Hooghiemstra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Dick De Waard

University of Groningen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 13, 2021

Abstract

Starting in October 2013, auditors of premium-listed firms in the United Kingdom are mandated to prepare an expanded auditor’s report that provides details on audit procedures, risks of material misstatement (RMMs), and materiality thresholds. This regulatory change is important to study, because it aims to increase the informational value of the traditional, highly standardized, pass-or-fail auditor’s report. We examine whether the disclosures in the expanded auditor’s report provide information that is relevant for adopting firms’ loan contracting terms in the post-adoption period. Our results indicate that the introduction of the expanded auditor’s report is associated with reduced loan spread and longer maturity for loan facilities of adopting firms relative to non-adopting UK firms. When we focus on adopting firms in the post-adoption period, we find that the number of “unique RMMs” mentioned in the auditor’s report, but not in the audit committee report, are positively associated with loan spread but are not associated either with loan maturity or the number of lenders in the loan syndicate. Additional tests show that the benefits, in terms of a reduced spread, of having a lower number of “unique RMMs” accrue mostly to adopters with a poor information environment. Taken together, our results provide preliminary evidence that the expanded auditor’s report disclosures contain relevant information for loan contracting in the United Kingdom. This study highlights the unique role of the expanded auditor’s report in providing information relevant to lenders and supports standard setters’ efforts to enrich its informational content.

Keywords: expanded auditor’s report, audit risk disclosures, risks of material misstatement (RMMs), loan contracting terms

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G32, K22, M42

Suggested Citation:

Porumb, Vlad-Andrei and Zengin-Karaibrahimoglu, Yasemin and Lobo, Gerald J. and Hooghiemstra, Reggy and De Waard, Dick, Expanded Auditor’s Report Disclosures and Loan Contracting (May 13, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research 38 (4): 3214-3253., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
11 Citations
Linette Rousseau , Karla M. Zehms
It’s a Matter of Style: The Role of Audit Firms and Audit Partners in Key Audit Matter Reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 1,343
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
María-del-Mar Camacho-Miñano , Nora Muñoz-Izquierdo , Morton P.K. Pincus , Patricia Wellmeyer
Are Key Audit Matter Disclosures Useful in Assessing the Financial Distress Level of a Firm?
Forthcoming in The British Accounting Review · 58 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 23 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 1,070
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth F. Gutierrez , Miguel Minutti-Meza , Kay Tatum , Maria Vulcheva
<b><span>The Consequences of Expanded Audit Reports for Small and Risky Companies</span></b>
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming&nbsp; · 54 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 30 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 566
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andreas Seebeck , Devrimi Kaya
The Power of Words: An Empirical Analysis of the Communicative Value of Extended Auditor Reports
European Accounting Review, forthcoming · 49 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 743
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
777
RANK
49,992
11 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies