Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Auditors’ Reliance on Data Analytics under Inspection Risk Using Fixed and Growth Mindsets

55 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021 Last revised: 23 Jun 2021

Tongrui Cao

Zhejiang University - School of Business Administration

Rong-Ruey Duh

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Tu Xu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: June 23, 2021

Abstract

Audit firms have invested significantly in data analytics (DA). However, evidence shows that auditors are often reluctant to rely on DA. A major auditor concern is that inspectors will second-guess the audit evidence gathered using DA. Drawing on psychology research, we examine how the effect of inspection risk on auditors’ reliance on DA is moderated by a fixed mindset (a belief that one’s ability is fixed) versus a growth mindset (a belief that one’s ability is malleable). In an experiment with Big Four auditors as participants, we find that, relative to low inspection risk, high inspection risk reduces auditors’ reliance on DA when auditors are prompted with a fixed mindset, but increases it when auditors are prompted with a growth mindset. Our findings contribute to auditing literature on DA, inspection risk, and mindsets, and have implications for auditors, audit firms, and regulators.

Keywords: data analytics; inspection risk; mindsets; auditor judgment

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Tongrui and Duh, Rong-Ruey and Tan, Hun-Tong and Xu, Tu, Enhancing Auditors’ Reliance on Data Analytics under Inspection Risk Using Fixed and Growth Mindsets (June 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
794
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,644
RANK
71,891
14 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies