Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Brain Drain in Auditing? The Determinants and Consequences of Auditors’ Leaving Public Accounting

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Baolei Qi

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Zili Zhuang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: May 25, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates why auditors leave public accounting and the consequences of auditor departures, both of which have been of great concern for audit firms and regulators worldwide. Using data from China and controlling for demographics, we find that audit partners and managers, auditors who generate more revenue, and auditors who provide higher audit quality have a lower likelihood of departure, while non–Big 4 auditors have a higher likelihood of departing public accounting. We also find that an audit firm is likely to lose clients when an auditor departs. Clients who stay with the same firm pay lower audit fees but with no drop-off in audit quality after a signing auditor departs. In supplementary analyses, we also demonstrate that the determinants and consequences of auditor departures are different for auditors who leave the firm but not the profession (i.e., auditor turnover). Specifically, high audit quality is associated with a lower likelihood of auditor departure, but it increases auditor turnover. We also observe that audit quality is reduced for the clients who stay with an audit firm after highly skilled auditors depart for high visibility corporate positions. Our study provides insights that should be of interest to the audit profession, audit firms, and regulators.

Keywords: auditor departure, auditor turnover, auditor switch, audit fees, audit quality

JEL Classification: M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Mao, Juan and Qi, Baolei and Zhuang, Zili, Is There a Brain Drain in Auditing? The Determinants and Consequences of Auditors’ Leaving Public Accounting (May 25, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858439
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Decision-Making & Management Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies