Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming.

62 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2021 Last revised: 1 Jul 2022

Bright Asante-Appiah

Lehigh University

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Date Written: June 30, 2022

Abstract

Companies are under increasing pressure to manage their reputation on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Auditors are a potential source of ESG risk management expertise and assurance due to a deep understanding of their client’s ESG-related reputation risk (“ESG risk”) and their assurance reporting expertise. However, provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor is controversial and public accountants are still defining their role in ESG risk control and reporting. We explore whether auditors help companies manage heightened ESG risk in times of reputation crisis, using abnormal negative ESG-related media coverage as a measure of “tainted reputation.” Findings show a positive association between tainted reputation and nonaudit services and between the interaction of tainted reputation and nonaudit services with future firm value. The positive interaction persists when we consider a proxy for other ESG risk management activities in our analyses and for other measures of ESG risk management effectiveness (future stock returns and future tainted reputation). Subsample analyses indicate that results are driven by companies audited by ESG industry specialist auditors, that the association between tainted reputation and nonaudit services is driven by companies owned by institutional shareholders, and that inferences from our results may not hold when ESG risk is dominated by its social component. Using restatements as a proxy, we find no evidence to suggest that the interaction of tainted reputation and nonaudit services is associated with impaired audit quality. Findings demonstrate an empirical linkage between tainted reputation and nonaudit services that is positively associated with future firm value measures.

Keywords: ESG, ESG reputation, ESG reporting, ESG assurance, sustainability assurance, auditor ESG expertise

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M14, M41, M42, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Asante-Appiah, Bright and Lambert, Tamara A., The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk (June 30, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3864175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3864175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,979
RANK
16,327
29 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies