Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stars in a Small World: Social Networks in Auditing Research

Scientometrics volume 122, pages625–643 (2020)

Posted: 23 Jun 2021

Andreas Andrikopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department Maritime Studies

Michalis Bekiaris

University of the Aegean

Konstantinos Kostaris

University of the Aegean - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: November 15, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the structure of scientific collaboration in auditing research and its impact on the production of published research. To this end, we model networks of authors who published auditing research papers in 12 peer-reviewed accounting and auditing journals from 1997 to 2016. The collaboration network of auditing researchers has a right-skewed degree distribution, according to which there is a small number of authors that each have many coauthors. Moreover, we find that the network of auditing researchers has small-world characteristics that imply a more integrated connectivity among researchers. The small-world phenomenon is shaped by the network stars, i.e., authors who act as intermediaries among their large number of coauthors. We also discover that the star structure affects individual research productivity. The small-world results are robust when our sample is expanded to incorporate accounting research over the same 20-year period.

Keywords: Auditing Research, Scientometrics, Social Network Analysis, Research Productivity

Suggested Citation:

Andrikopoulos, Andreas and Bekiaris, Michalis and Kostaris, Konstantinos, Stars in a Small World: Social Networks in Auditing Research (November 15, 2019). Scientometrics volume 122, pages625–643 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866936
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies