Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sounds of Silence: A Framework, Theory, and Empirical Evidence of Audit Team Voice

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021

Shana Clor-Proell

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Chad A. Proell

University of North Texas- Ryan College of Business -Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 14, 2021

Abstract

Lower-level auditors are likely to encounter client information that may reflect important audit issues. The audit team cannot address these issues unless they are communicated upward. However, research indicates that lower-level auditors sometimes withhold issues, threatening audit effectiveness. We use a multi-method grounded theory approach to expand our understanding of the factors associated with auditors’ decision to speak up about potential audit issues. We use an experiential questionnaire to draw out participants’ real-life experiences with the decision to speak up or remain silent in the field (i.e., the “voice” decision). We summarize this work in a framework of audit voice determinants and a theoretical model of audit voice. We then use the determinants framework and the developed theory to conduct an experiment as an exemplar for how our work can be useful in generating future research.

Keywords: Audit teams, information sharing, employee voice, experiential questionnaire

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Clor-Proell, Shana and Kadous, Kathryn and Proell, Chad A., The Sounds of Silence: A Framework, Theory, and Empirical Evidence of Audit Team Voice (June 14, 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
138,390
5 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies