Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceiving Auditors' Tone

The paper has been accepted and forthcoming at European Accounting Review.

57 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021 Last revised: 14 Apr 2025

Ling Na Belinda Yau

The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 05, 2025

Abstract

The expanded audit reporting model requires auditors to disclose both risks of material misstatements in the risk section and how they address such risks in the response section in key audit matter (KAM) disclosures. Using hand-collected audit report data from the United Kingdom, I investigate whether investors and analysts find the response tone with communicative value. First, I find that the response tone, but not the risk tone, is significantly associated with audit quality (proxied by lower likelihood of future restatements, lower abnormal audit fees, and longer audit report lag). Next, I find that both investors and analysts view the response tone with communicative value. Moreover, the cross-sectional test results reveal that the association between the response tone and investor or analyst reactions is stronger when there is less available firm-specific information, or when auditors are perceived to be more credible. These findings suggest that the response tone conveys auditors’ sentiment regarding the audit quality, enabling financial statement users to assess the value of audits more effectively. 

Keywords: expanded audit reports, tone analysis, RMM, KAM, CAM

Suggested Citation:

Yau, Ling Na Belinda, Perceiving Auditors' Tone (April 05, 2025). The paper has been accepted and forthcoming at European Accounting Review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3867131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,408
RANK
444,235
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies