Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of COVID-19 and Continuous Auditing on Employees' Compliance with the Internal Control System: The Moderating Role of Conscientiousness

52 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2021

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Vanessa Lopez-Kasper

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Amin S. Sofla

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 25, 2021

Abstract

The trend towards continuous auditing of business operations is growing. In economically demanding times, organizations aim to improve compliance with internal controls. Our study investigates whether continuous auditing and a (COVID19) crisis situation interact with the personality trait conscientiousness among auditees to influence compliance with internal controls. We conducted a between-subjects experiment manipulating audit frequency (continuous vs. traditional audit) and the current business situation (business as usual vs. crisis) and received 125 complete responses from sales professionals. We found that the effect of a crisis situation on the likelihood to engage in non-compliance with internal controls is conditional on conscientiousness, while continuous auditing does not seem to interact with the trait of conscientiousness. Specifically, we observe that less conscientious individuals who are operating under a crisis condition and continuously audited are likelier to engage in non-compliance with internal controls. In contrast, individuals with a high level of conscientiousness were more likely to comply with internal controls when continuously audited in the context of a crisis.

Keywords: Continuous Auditing, Conscientiousness, Continuous Monitoring, COVID-19, Internal Auditing, Technology-Based Audit Techniques

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Lopez-Kasper, Vanessa and Salimi Sofla, Amin, The Effects of COVID-19 and Continuous Auditing on Employees' Compliance with the Internal Control System: The Moderating Role of Conscientiousness (June 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3873799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3873799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Putting continuous auditing theory into practice: Lessons from two pilot implementations
Journal of Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2008
Crossref
O E Atherton , M B Donnellan , R W Robins
Development of personality across the life span
The cambridge handbook of personality psychology Posted: 2020
Crossref
G Corr , Matthews
, p. 169 - 182
Crossref
R A Barra
The impact of internal controls and penalties on fraud
Journal of Information Systems , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
RANK
176,143
1 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies