Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Islamic Religious Atmosphere and Audit Pricing: Evidence from Iran

Business Ethics, the Environment and Responsibility, Doi: 10.1111/beer.12364, January 2021

Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Mehdi Khodakarami

University of Tehran

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether the Islamic religious atmosphere of local communities influences audit pricing. We use a comprehensive survey conducted by Iran’s Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance to measure the Islamic religious atmosphere. Using a sample of 1,204 observations from firms listed in Iran’s capital market, we find that firms located in regions with a strong Islamic religious atmosphere pay significantly lower audit fees. Furthermore, the study reveals that family ownership (auditor size) strengthens (weakens) the aforementioned relationship. However, we did not find a significant moderating role for the local community’s social capital. We contribute to the ethics literature by providing a better understanding of the economic consequences of the religious atmosphere and offering policy, practical, and educational implications.

Keywords: Religious atmosphere, Audit fees, Audit risk, Agency costs, Islam, Family firms

JEL Classification: M14, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Khodakarami, Mehdi and Rezaee, Zabihollah and Hesarzadeh, Reza, Islamic Religious Atmosphere and Audit Pricing: Evidence from Iran (June 30, 2021). Business Ethics, the Environment and Responsibility, Doi: 10.1111/beer.12364, January 2021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3874934
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies