Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Firms’ Compensation Policies Associated With Audit Quality?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Eva Maria Schreiber

Independent

Greg Trompeter

University of Central Florida

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 12, 2019

Abstract

We examine how compensation policies of audit firms are associated with audit quality. Specifically, we investigate the effects of the ratio of variable to fixed compensation and the size of the basis for profit sharing (i.e., whether partners share profits in a small or in a large profit pool). For our analyses, we use detailed mandatory disclosure of the compensation policies in German audit firms. We document that compensation policies vary considerably across audit firms. We find that profit sharing in a small profit pool and high variable compensation are two characteristics of auditor compensation associated with lower audit quality. We also find some evidence suggesting that audit quality may be most at risk in cases where partners rely more heavily on variable compensation to divide a relative small profit pool. In additional analyses, we find that these associations are more pronounced in medium-sized audit firms. We argue that this finding may result from these firms being too large for audit partners to directly monitor each other effectively, yet simultaneously too small to have sophisticated centralized monitoring systems in place. Finally, we find that integrating partner-specific, non-profit-related performance metrics into the compensation structure mitigates the adverse effects of small profit pools and high variable compensation.

Keywords: audit partner compensation; variable pay; small profit pool; audit quality

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Ernstberger, Jürgen and Koch, Christopher and Schreiber, Eva Maria and Trompeter, Gregory, Are Audit Firms’ Compensation Policies Associated With Audit Quality? (April 12, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3875762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3875762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Amoruso , C Jones , R W Roberts , G Trompeter
The misalignment of control and compensation in professional service firms: The case of Arthur Andersen Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
RANK
407,466
8 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies