Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Access to Developed Audit Markets Improve Home Audit Quality? Evidence from China

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Kevin C. K. Lam

Hang Seng Management College; The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Julia Liu

The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong

Rita Yip

The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 29, 2021

Abstract

In December 2010, Hong Kong regulators allowed 12 mainland Chinese registered audit firms to audit companies incorporated in mainland China and listed in Hong Kong (H-shares). In this study, we examine whether access to the Hong Kong audit market improves the quality of audits conducted by these Chinese audit firms for clients listed in the mainland markets (A-shares). Using data from 2008 to 2016, we find that mainland auditors with H-share clients provide higher quality audits, as measured by more modified audit opinions, higher audit fees and less earnings management, than auditors without H-share clients. This effect is more pronounced when the auditors are non-Big 4 firms and the clients are listed only in mainland China. Further analysis shows that A-share investors react positively to the initial announcement that mainland auditors are permitted to conduct H-share audits. Overall, our findings suggest that H-share audits have a positive spillover effect on the quality of A-share audits.

Keywords: audit quality, Big 4, non-Big 4, China, H-share, spillover

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lam, Kevin C. K. and Liu, Julia Junxia and Yip, Rita, Does Access to Developed Audit Markets Improve Home Audit Quality? Evidence from China (June 29, 2021). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Joseph V. Carcello , Brian Todd Carver , Clive Lennox , Terry L. Neal
When Bonding Fails: Audit Firm Oversight of US-Listed Chinese Companies
Pages: 58 Posted: 3 Apr 2014 Last revised: 4 Apr 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph V. Carcello , Brian Todd Carver , Terry L. Neal
Market Reaction to the PCAOB's Inability to Conduct Foreign Inspections
Pages: 46 Posted: 18 Aug 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
RANK
849,077
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies