Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An unintended benefit of auditors’ issuance of idiosyncratic Key Audit Matters (KAMs): Evidence from stock price crash risk

Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Romalani Leofo

Australian National University (ANU)

Greg Shailer

Australian National University (ANU) - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: July 2, 2021

Abstract

The UK has required auditors to report key audit matters (KAMs) since 2013. Regulators and investors have expressed concerns that “boilerplate” KAMs, lacking firm specificity, might not enhance financial reporting quality. We address this concern by investigating the association between idiosyncratic KAM disclosures in the auditor’s report and future crash risk, for UK premium-listed firms from 2013 to 2019. We find a significant negative association between idiosyncratic KAMs and one-year ahead crash risk, suggesting that auditors’ issuance of idiosyncratic KAM disclosures deters bad news hoarding by management. The results are robust to alternate measures of the idiosyncrasy of KAMs and crash risk, and an instrumental variable analysis to further address endogeneity threats. Further analyses suggest that the role of idiosyncratic KAMs in mitigating crash risk are influenced by corporations’ information environments and corporate governance. We believe the results of this study will better inform regulators and investors about the consequences of KAMs in relation to the perceived risk of bad news hoarding and the potential for enhancing corporate disclosure quality.

Keywords: KAMs disclosure, crash risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Leofo, Romalani and Shailer, Greg, An unintended benefit of auditors’ issuance of idiosyncratic Key Audit Matters (KAMs): Evidence from stock price crash risk (July 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878713
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies