Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Mapping Analysis of Blockchain Applications Within the Field of Auditing

Cagle, M. (2020). A Mapping Analysis of Blockchain Applications Within the Field of Auditing. The World of Accounting Science, 22(4), 695-724.

30 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Melissa Cagle

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract

Blockchain technology has a wide scope of applicability for accounting and auditing purposes, separate from Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies. However, although blockchain technology is identified as a popular topic within the field, there currently exists a lack of consensus on how it will be realistically applied. This paper aims to map the presently existing international auditing literature and offer clarity to an otherwise heterogeneous field. The mapping analysis will aid in examining the underlying theme employed within studies. Through the use of the Bibliometrix R-Package "Biblioshiny", a sample of 112 studies were downloaded from the Web of Science Core Collection and analyzed. This study's results show that the topic has gained increased international popularity and separated into distinct research streams; Encrypted Private and Secure Information Sharing, Distributed Ledger, Smart Contracts, Continuous Audit, Audit Trail and Tokenization. However, there still exists a research gap that must be addressed to hasten the adoption of blockchain technology in auditing.

Keywords: Auditing Profession, Blockchain, Digitalization, Blockchain Applications, Mapping Analysis

JEL Classification: m40

Suggested Citation:

Cagle, Melissa, A Mapping Analysis of Blockchain Applications Within the Field of Auditing (December 31, 2020). Cagle, M. (2020). A Mapping Analysis of Blockchain Applications Within the Field of Auditing. The World of Accounting Science, 22(4), 695-724., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
469
RANK
538,270
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies