Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Insights on Audit Quality

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2020

8 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Ya Fang Wang

Providence University (Taiwan)

Date Written: April 13, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The mechanism of dual attestation system is to enhance audit quality through bonding legal liability of two signing partners. However, an intense debate regarding the retention or abolition of dual attestation system was discussed in recent years, because the amended Accountant Act have disputes over auditor’s legal liabilities attributed to the Bardon and Rebar frauds. This study thus examines the audit quality of dual attestation system by exploring whether auditor locality and auditor tenure can affect audit quality simultaneously.

Design/methodology/approach: This study investigates whether auditor locality and auditor tenure can affect audit quality simultaneously, using a regression model to examine my research issues. The sample is restricted to Taiwan’s public listed companies of Big Four audit from 2002-2013 because data collection involves significant manual effort in reading individual auditor information of Big Four and searching lead/concurring auditor-client distance of Big Four. Financial data is obtained from Taiwan Economic Journal database (TEJ).

Finding: I present evidence that audit quality is affected by auditor locality and auditor tenure, and differential portfolio of auditor locality and auditor tenure have different effects on audit quality under the dual attestation system.

Research limitations/implications: This study has three limitations. First, the sample is limited to the clients of PwC, Deloitte, EY and KPMG because the required information for practice offices of lead and concurring auditors is only available for Big 4. Second, although discretionary accruals is a noisy proxy for audit quality and it does not necessarily reflect actual audit quality, it is widely used in the literature to provide rich insights into audit quality. Three, sample size is limited because of insufficient data to compute discretionary accruals.

Originality/value: This investigation extends previous research on audit quality by examining the geographic proximity and auditor-client relationship. Furthermore, this study contributes to the debate regarding the retention or abolition of dual attestation system.

Keywords: audit quality, dual attestation, auditor locality, auditor tenure

JEL Classification: F02, F23, O19

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ya Fang, New Insights on Audit Quality (April 13, 2020). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
872,691
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies