Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Error Reports in the Light of Error Management Climate, Task Complexity and Personnel Composition

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2019

10 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Marco Haid

UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology

Sabine Graschitz

University of Innsbruck

Peter Heimerl

UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines the impact of error management climate, task complexity and personnel composition on the willingness to report errors in audit firms. A high willingness to report errors enables the proper conduction of an audit and is associated with higher organizational performance.

Design/methodology/approach: We use a mixed-subject case-based experiment to gain data for the examination. A total of 53 certified Austrian and German auditors participated in the experiment. For the data analysis, we use descriptive statistics and nonparametric test procedures to investigate significant differences.

Findings: The results indicate that a proper error management climate is the most important factor for the willingness to report errors, which increases under an “error-tolerant” error management climate. The impact of the error management climate is independent of the task complexity and the personnel composition in which the error occurred.

Research limitations/implications: The use of other methods and approaches to manipulate and operationalize the variables may lead to different results.

Originality/value: This study contributes to the growing body of literature on error management climate. The analysis of the influence of task complexity and personnel composition on the willingness to report errors offers new insights into the impact and significance of error management climate in audit firms.

Keywords: Error Management Climate, Personnel Composition, Error Report, Audit Quality, Task Complexity

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Haid, Marco and Graschitz, Sabine and Heimerl, Peter, Error Reports in the Light of Error Management Climate, Task Complexity and Personnel Composition (December 2, 2019). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Baldauf , R Steckel
Joint Audit and Accuracy of the Auditor's Report: An Empirical Study
International Journal of Economic Sciences and Applied Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 7 - 42 Posted: 2012
S Bonner
A model of the effects of audit task complexity
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , p. 213 - 234 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S Bonner
Judgment and Decision Making in Accounting Posted: 2008
M Cameran , A Detillo , A Pettinicchio
Auditing teams -Dynamics and Efficiency Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
RANK
915,095
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Decision-Making & Management Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies