Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation Risk and Auditors’ Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from Chinese Comment Letters

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 11 Nov 2022

Ning Hu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Jiayi Xu

Shanghai Normal University

Shuang Xue

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 25, 2021

Abstract

We study how auditors respond to regulatory risk that arises when their clients receive comment letters from Chinese stock exchanges. Our results show that auditors are more likely to issue modified or conservative—but not excessively conservative—audit opinions to the recipients of comment letters. This reporting conservatism is especially pronounced when the regulatory risk perceived by auditors rises, such as when comment letters contain more questions, when more comment letters are issued, when the auditors must give opinions on specific issues, or when comment letters involve more auditor issues. Comment letters have been issued in China since 2013, but did not have to be disclosed until 2015. We find no significant difference in the impact of comment letters on auditor conservatism between pre- and post-disclosure periods. Further, the size of auditor firms has no significant effect on the impact of comment letters in post-disclosure periods. We interpret our results as supporting the regulation risk hypothesis.

Keywords: Regulation Risk; Comment Letters; Auditors’ Reporting Conservatism; Spillover Effect.

JEL Classification: G28, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Ning and Xu, Jiayi and Xue, Shuang, Regulation Risk and Auditors’ Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from Chinese Comment Letters (May 25, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3881923
 Not Available for Download
51 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
J. Account. Res , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Did the 2007 PCAOB disciplinary order against Deloitte impose actual costs on the firm or improve its audit quality?
Account. Rev , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 405 - 441 Posted: 2015
Z Bozanic , J R Dietrich , B A Johnson
SEC comment letters and firm disclosure
J. Account. Public Policy , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 357 Posted: 2017
S V Brown , X Tian , J W Tucker
The spillover effect of SEC comment letters on qualitative corporate disclosure: evidence from the risk factor disclosure
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 622 - 656 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies