Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical audit matters and internal control quality: The disciplining role of CAM reporting 

Posted: 12 Jul 2021 Last revised: 10 Jul 2025

Carol Callaway Dee

University of Colorado Denver

Bing Luo

San Francisco State University

Elaine Wang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether critical audit matter (CAM) reporting improves internal controls over financial reporting. We propose that CAM reporting improves internal control quality. This is because CAM reporting incentivizes early identification and communication of internal control issues among auditors, management, and audit committees, and increases their attention and effort in high-risk CAM areas. We find that, compared to control companies, companies that implement CAM reporting experience a significant decrease in the likelihood of internal control material weaknesses (ICMWs), and the improvement in internal control quality is primarily at account-level rather than entity-level controls. We also find that CAM reporting significantly lowers the likelihood of accounting misstatements. Cross-sectional analyses suggest that the benefit of CAM reporting on internal control quality depends on audit committee quality and auditor effort. The survey results of audit partners and CFOs provide further support for our theory.

Suggested Citation:

Dee, Carol Callaway and Luo, Bing and Wang, Elaine (Ying) and Zhang, Jing, Critical audit matters and internal control quality: The disciplining role of CAM reporting  (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3882399
 Not Available for Download
65 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Zaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
R An , W Li , D Wang , Y Wang , L Yu
Do Key Audit Matters Affect operating activities? Evidence from inventory management , volume 59 , p. 300 - 339 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,293
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies