Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Mandatory Disclosure of Audit Information Affect Analysts’ Information Acquisition?

47 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Mianmian Ji

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Shasha Liu

School of Management, Jinan University

Date Written: July 8, 2021

Abstract

By introducing the implementation of the Key Audit Matters (KAM) Disclosure Standards for China’s companies cross-listed in Hong Kong in 2017, we present evidence that KAM disclosure reduces analysts’ company visits, which is an important channel of information acquisition. The decreasing effect is particularly pronounced for companies with audit partner rotation and low institutional ownership. KAM disclosure by industrial leaders has a spillover effect on analyst visits for peer firms. Disclosure also improves the frequency and quality of analysts’ forecasts and firms’ information environments, indicating that KAMs are informative and audit information is an important determinant of analysts’ information acquisition.

Keywords: Sell-side analysts; Key audit matters disclosure; Corporate site visits; Analyst forecasts; Market efficiency.

JEL Classification: M42, D82, G14.

Suggested Citation:

Kong, Dongmin and Ji, Mianmian and Liu, Shasha, Does the Mandatory Disclosure of Audit Information Affect Analysts’ Information Acquisition? (July 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3882593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Lu , J Zhang
A Preliminary Study on the Disclosure of Critical Audit Matters in the Audit Report: Evidence from AH Dual-listed Companies. Accounting Research , p. 83 - 89 Posted: 2018
L Makosa , J Yang , L Sitsha , M Jachi
2020. Mandatory CSR disclosure and firm investment behavior: Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in China
Journal of corporate accounting & finance , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 33 - 47
Crossref
T J Mock , J Bédard , P J Coram , S M Davis , R Espahbodi , R C Warne
The Audit Reporting Model: Current Research Synthesis and Implications
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Moroney , S Phang , X Xiao
When Do Investors Value Key Audit Matters?
European Accounting Review Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
991
RANK
349,147
5 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies