Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Ratification of Auditors After PCAOB Censures

39 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021

Paul Tanyi

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Accounting

Dasaratha Rama

Florida International University (FIU) - College of Business Administration

Kannan Raghunandan

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: July 11, 2021

Abstract

Prior research provides inconsistent evidence about the effect of PCAOB censures of US Big 4 audit firms on investors’ reactions. In this study, we use shareholder ratifications of the auditor as a direct measure of investor perceptions about audit quality. We find that first-time censures of Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and PwC by the PCAOB are associated with greater shareholder dissatisfaction, as measured by the percent of shareholders not voting to ratify the auditor after the censure. However, the repeat censures of Deloitte do not elicit significant reactions from shareholders. Further, shareholders are more likely to vote against audit committee directors when the censured audit firm continues as the client’s auditor. Thus, the results suggest that investors view PCAOB censures of audit firms as indicators of (negative) audit quality in some instances and, hence, are of potential interest to regulators, audit committees, and investors.

Keywords: PCAOB Censures, Auditor Ratifications, Audit Committee Elections

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Tanyi, Paul and Rama, Dasaratha and Raghunandan, Kannan, Shareholder Ratification of Auditors After PCAOB Censures (July 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3884425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
470,088
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies