Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Susceptibility to the Numerosity Heuristic Impact Juror Assessments of Auditors’ Liability?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Jul 2021

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Benjamin L. Luippold

Babson College

Kerri-Ann Sanderson

Bentley University

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

We provide evidence that regulatory guidance aimed at improving audit efficiency and effectiveness—allowing auditor reliance on a multi-location client’s competent and objective internal audit function (IAF)—can unintentionally increase auditors’ litigation risk. Our research is important in demonstrating how client characteristics and juror cognitive processing, such as the number of client locations and jurors’ susceptibility to the numerosity heuristic, factors beyond auditors’ control, can exacerbate their litigation exposure. Consistent with theoretical predictions, we find that susceptibility to the numerosity heuristic contributes to jurors’ assessing an increased likelihood of misstatement on multi-location compared to single location audits. Further, these assessments of higher misstatement risk on multi-location audits lead jurors to perceive that auditor reliance on the client’s IAF in multi-location audits is less appropriate (i.e., not normal). Accordingly, jurors judge that auditors are more negligent when they rely on the IAF during multi-location audits than when they do not, but IAF reliance does not impact auditor negligence on single location audits. Our results suggest auditor reluctance to use a qualified IAF, despite client pressure and regulatory allowance, can provide potential benefits to firms in terms of reduced litigation exposure. Thus, we demonstrate the legal regime can undermine the objectives of regulators’ guidance to enhance audit efficiency and corporate governance.

Keywords: auditor liability, numerosity heuristic, internal audit, multi-location audits, work of others, audit effectiveness versus efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Joe, Jennifer R. and Luippold, Benjamin L. and Sanderson, Kerri-Ann, Does Susceptibility to the Numerosity Heuristic Impact Juror Assessments of Auditors’ Liability? (July 12, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3886570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies