Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Security Assurance and the Role of Security Configuration Management: Substantive and Symbolic Perspectives

1 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Chia-Ming Sun

Department of Accounting

Yen-Yao Wang

Auburn University - Harbert College of Business

Chen-Bin Yang

National Chung Cheng University

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper explores whether IT and audit professionals have different perceptions of the substantive and symbolic perspectives of information security assurance and the role of security configuration management (SCM) using a mixture of qualitative and quantitative approaches. Importance performance analysis (IPA) is utilized to identify differences in perceived importance and perceived controllability from both substantive and symbolic perspectives between these two professional groups. Our results suggest that SCM plays a vital role in maintaining consistency between the IT and audit professionals by enhancing their confidence in controlling and managing information security control sets. IPA also helps determine an information security program's strengths and weaknesses and supports remedial strategic actions more efficiently. Implications for both research and practice are discussed.

Keywords: IT professionals, audit professionals, information security assurance, security configuration management, importance performance analysis

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Chia-Ming and Wang, Yen-Yao and Yang, Chen-Bin, Information Security Assurance and the Role of Security Configuration Management: Substantive and Symbolic Perspectives (March 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3887486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3887486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
RANK
502,214
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies