Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employing string similarity metrics of partners to estimate audit team continuity: determinant and its effects on audit outcomes and pricing

Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 45 No. 2, pp. 314-339. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAL-02-2022-0026

Posted: 6 Sep 2021 Last revised: 1 May 2023

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: February 3, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
Partners are responsible for allocating audit tasks and facilitating knowledge sharing among team members. This study considers changes in the composition of partners to proxy for the continuity of the audit team. This study examines the effect of audit team continuity on audit outcomes (audit quality and report lags), pricing and its determinant (lead partner experience), which have not been thoroughly examined in previous studies.

Design/methodology/approach
This study employs string similarity metrics to measure audit team continuity. The study employs multivariate panel data regression empirical models to estimate a sample of 26,007 firm-years of listed Japanese companies from 2008 to 2019.

Findings
The study reveals that audit team continuity is negatively associated with audit fees, regardless of the auditor’s size. This finding contributes to the existing literature by showing that audit team continuity represents one of the determinant factors of audit fee. For clients of large audit firms, companies with higher (lower) audit team continuity issue audit reports in less (more) time. The experience of lead partners is a strong predictor of audit team continuity, irrespective of audit firm size. Audit quality is not associated with audit team continuity for either large or small audit firms.

Originality/value
This study proposes and examines audit team continuity measures that employ string similarity metrics to quantify changes in the composition of partners in consecutive audit engagements. Audit team continuity expands upon the tenure of individual audit partners, which is commonly used in prior literature as a measure of client–partner relationships.

Keywords: audit quality, audit pricing, audit report lags, partner experience

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy and Takeda, Fumiko, Employing string similarity metrics of partners to estimate audit team continuity: determinant and its effects on audit outcomes and pricing (February 3, 2023). Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 45 No. 2, pp. 314-339. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAL-02-2022-0026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3889183
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
486
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies