Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Assessment and Response to Audit Risks: Evidence from Content Analyses of Critical Audit Matters

2 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Hyunkwon Cho

Sungkyunkwan University

Ahrum Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Soo Young Kwon

Korea University

Date Written: July 20, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether critical audit matter (CAM) disclosures required by Auditing Standard 3101 have communication value through content analyses. First, we employ salience scores to capture the importance of audit risk and scope in describing CAMs as assessed by the auditor. Due to limited information processing ability, human readers assign more importance to prominent parts and find them more informative, which is captured by salience score. Second, we count words related to the resolution activities to analyze how actively the auditors resolve the CAM. The results show that these textual attributes of CAMs are related to the proxies for client business risk, audit risk, auditor business risk, auditor attributes, and audit committee effectiveness. We also document that audit fees are higher with higher salience scores in the audit scope. These results indicate that auditors make efforts into actual communication via CAM disclosures.

Keywords: CAMs, Salience score, Risk assessment, Audit scope, Auditor Response

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Hyunkwon and Choi, Ahrum and Kwon, Soo Young, Auditors’ Assessment and Response to Audit Risks: Evidence from Content Analyses of Critical Audit Matters (July 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3890015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
RANK
234,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies