Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has It Become More Readable? Empirical Evidence of Key Matters in Independent Audit Reports

Marques, V.A.; Pereira, L.N.; Aquino, I.F.; Freitag, V.C. (2021). Has it become more readable? Empirical evidence of key matters in independent audit reports. Revista Contabilidade & Finanças. 32(87).doi.org/10.1590/1808-057x202112990

17 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2021 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Vagner Marques

Accounting Department - Federal University of Espírito Santo

Lanna Nogueira

FUCAPE

Idamo Aquino

Federal University of Espírito Santo

Viviane Freitag

Universidade Federal da Paraíba

Date Written: July 23, 2021

Abstract

The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of the adoption of Brazilian Accounting Standard - Auditing Technique 701 (NBC TA 701, in its Portuguese initialism) over the readability of audit reports. The study fills a gap in the literature by obtaining empirical evidence regarding the effect of NBC TA 701 on the readability and comprehensibility of audit reports. The study is important for verifying whether the disclosure of key audit matters (KAMs) improves the ease of reading and understanding audit reports after the adoption of NBC TA 701. Unlike in the previous literature, it was observed that the effect of KAMs has a non-linear, U-shaped relationship, which suggests additional benefits to readability based on a certain quantity of key matters reported. The data from a sample of 240 listed companies on the B3 S.A. -Brasil,Bolsa,Balcão (B3), in the period from 2013 to 2018, were assessed using content analysis, descriptive statistics, difference of means tests, and panel data correlation and regression analyses. The results showed that the adoption of NBC TA 701 significantly affected the Flesch readability index (FRI) of the independent audit reports. They also confirmed that the quantity of KAMs reported increases the FRI in a non-linear way, and that the types of key matters affect readability differently according to their complexity. The results provide evidence that the new audit report improves the level of readability in a non-linear way, thus contributing to the informational content of the audit report used by the various users for decision making.

Keywords: audit report, ISA 701, Key Audit Matters, Critical Audit Matters, Expanded Auditing Report

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Vagner and Nogueira, Lanna Pereira and Aquino, Idamo Favalessa and Freitag, Viviane da Costa, Has It Become More Readable? Empirical Evidence of Key Matters in Independent Audit Reports (July 23, 2021). Marques, V.A.; Pereira, L.N.; Aquino, I.F.; Freitag, V.C. (2021). Has it become more readable? Empirical evidence of key matters in independent audit reports. Revista Contabilidade & Finanças. 32(87).doi.org/10.1590/1808-057x202112990, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3892471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
RANK
464,622
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies