Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Legal Liability and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from Organizational Transformation of Chinese Audit Firms

International Journal of Accounting 57(4): 2250016

49 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021 Last revised: 22 Mar 2023

Jian Chu

Nanjing University - School of Business

Chia-Hsiang Weng

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 1, 2021

Abstract

We utilize Chinese audit firms' organizational transformation to identify the increase in auditors’ legal liability and find that after auditors transform into limited liability partnerships (LLPs), their clients demonstrate lower future stock price crash risk. Using the path analysis, we find that accounting conservatism, optimism in management earnings forecasts, and optimism in management discussion and analysis (MD&A) disclosures explain the negative relationship between auditor legal liability and client crash risk. The results are less pronounced for auditors finishing the transformation in an early stage than for auditors subject to the mandatory transformation in 2013, as the former generally has a larger size and higher audit quality before the transformation. Overall, this study complements the existing literature on litigation risk and the auditor’s monitoring role in the client information environment.

Keywords: auditor litigation risk, auditor organizational transformation, stock price crash risk, accounting conservatism, management earnings forecasts, MD&A

JEL Classification: G14, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Jian and Weng, Chia-Hsiang, Auditor Legal Liability and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from Organizational Transformation of Chinese Audit Firms (May 1, 2021). International Journal of Accounting 57(4): 2250016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3893732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
464,622
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies