Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liberalising audit markets for local government: The five forces at work in England and the Netherlands

De Widt, D., Llewelyn, I., & Thorogood, T. (2021). Liberalising audit markets for local government: The five forces at work in England and the Netherlands. Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Dennis De Widt

Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University

Iolo Llewelyn

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tim Thorogood

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 5, 2021

Abstract

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management.
Both England and the Netherlands have seen efforts to liberalise their audit markets for local government in recent decades. According to economic theory these should benefit buyers as increased competition produces lower prices and improved quality. Increasing the number of competing audit firms in markets traditionally dominated by few, large, firms is widely seen as a key ingredient to this process. However, liberalisation has taken different paths in England compared to the Netherlands. In England, a national level collaborative purchasing arrangement has seen a small number of large firms competing whilst in the Netherlands a free market has led to withdrawal by Big-4 firms and rapidly growing market share by mid-tier and small firms. In this paper, we analyse contrasting market developments in local public audit in England and the Netherlands and accordingly analyse the underlying factors through applying an established framework for market analysis from industrial economics, Porter’s five forces framework, together with an institutional logics approach to further understand the factors involved. We find the Porter framework a useful tool to identify structural differences between markets but one that requires further analysis to explain underlying dynamics which in the case of Dutch and English local public audit markets is effectively provided by use of concepts from institutional logics including a historical contingency analysis.

Keywords: England, five forces framework, institutional logics, local government auditing, the Netherlands, Public Sector Audit Appointments Ltd

JEL Classification: L1, M4, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

De Widt, Dennis and Llewelyn, Iolo and Thorogood, Tim, Liberalising audit markets for local government: The five forces at work in England and the Netherlands (August 5, 2021). De Widt, D., Llewelyn, I., & Thorogood, T. (2021). Liberalising audit markets for local government: The five forces at work in England and the Netherlands. Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899766
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies