Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Tenure and Nonprofessional Investors' Perceptions of Auditor Independence: The Mitigating Effect of Partner Rotation Disclosure

48 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021 Last revised: 13 Sep 2023

Sarah Judge

Indiana University

Brian M. Goodson

Clemson University

Chad M. Stefaniak

University of South Carolina

Date Written: September 8, 2023

Abstract

In 2017 the PCAOB began requiring audit firm tenure disclosure within the audit report for SEC registrant clients. Many commenters raised concern that prominent disclosure of firm tenure would lead investors to inappropriately infer a negative relation between audit quality and long tenure. This is particularly troubling given empirical evidence generally does not support this concern. In our first experiment, we predict and find disclosing an audit firm’s long tenure within the audit report increases investors’ perceptions that the audit firm’s independence was impaired while conducting the audit. However, we also identify an intervention that mitigates the effects of reporting long tenure—an accompanying disclosure in the audit report of the firm’s adherence to the SEC’s mandatory partner rotation requirement. We find such a disclosure moderates the effect of long tenure disclosure such that in the absence (presence) of a partner rotation disclosure, investors do (not) perceive increased independence impairment when long firm tenure is disclosed. In a second experiment, we predict and find long firm tenure disclosure reduces investors’ preference to invest in an otherwise quantitatively optimal investment, and that this relation is driven, in part, by perceptions of independence impairment. Again, this result is attenuated by partner rotation disclosure. Our results should be useful to regulators in understanding one effect of their disclosure standard, and to audit firms because of their autonomy over adding engagement partner rotation protocols to their audit reports and potentially mitigating the effects of firm tenure disclosure.

Keywords: Audit report, firm tenure, partner rotation, nonprofessional investors, independence, investment decision-making

Suggested Citation:

Judge, Sarah and Goodson, Brian Matthew and Stefaniak, Chad M., Audit Firm Tenure and Nonprofessional Investors' Perceptions of Auditor Independence: The Mitigating Effect of Partner Rotation Disclosure (September 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3902131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
H I Aguinis , R S Villamor , Ramani
Mturk research: Review and recommendations
Journal of Management , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 823 - 837 Posted: 2021
Aicpa
Commission on auditors' responsibilities report, conclusions, and recommendations
AICPA Posted: 1978
Aicpa
Plain English guide to independence Posted: 2020
After 111 years, General Electric switches auditor
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
315,702
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies