Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client-firm narrative integrity culture disclosure and auditor responses

67 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2021 Last revised: 21 Dec 2024

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Christo Karuna

Monash University

Sagarika Mishra

Deakin University

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

We document that greater client-firm narrative workplace integrity culture disclosure is associated with favorable auditor responses to the client firm, as manifested in a lower likelihood of financial restatements, going concern opinions, and Section 404(b) opinions on internal controls, as well as less audit effort and lower audit fees. We find that these effects are more pronounced when the client-firm information environment quality is lower (as captured by higher information asymmetry), such as when the auditor is located further away from its client firm, and when client firms are associated with non-specialist auditors, weaker monitoring, less analyst following, higher probability of informed trading, and poor earnings quality. Supporting our claim that greater client-firm narrative integrity culture disclosure is associated with a higher perception of ethical behavior, we find that client-firm narrative integrity culture disclosure is negatively related to the likelihood of lawsuits and disclosure of material weaknesses in the auditor’s opinion on internal controls. These findings suggest that the auditor’s estimate of the likelihood of ethical behavior in the client firm may constitute a channel via which client-firm narrative integrity culture disclosure is related to auditor responses. This study contributes to the limited but growing number of studies that show that narrative disclosure influences auditing-related firm outcomes.

Keywords: culture, integrity, auditor responses, ethical behavior, information asymmetry, narrative disclosure

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Balachandran, Balasingham and Karuna, Christo and Mishra, Sagarika and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth, Client-firm narrative integrity culture disclosure and auditor responses (August 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3908295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3908295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J L Abernathy , F Guo , R R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Standards on ethics and integrity , volume 38 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2018
M Allen
The sage encyclopedia of communication research methods (Vols. 1-4)
Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement Posted: 2006
C S Armstrong , W Guay , J Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
312,985
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies