Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Assurance Quality and Level on Cybersecurity Risk Management Program on Non-Professional Egyptian Investors’ Decisions: An Experimental Study

Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 5, Issue 3, 2021.

57 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2021

Hebatallah Abd El Salam Badawy

Alexandria University; Egypt Japan University of Science and Technology

Date Written: August 28, 2021

Abstract

The objective of this study is to examine and analyze the impact of assurance quality (measured by the size of the audit firm performing this assurance; Big4 auditor vs. non-Big4) and assurance level (reasonable vs. limited assurance) on cybersecurity risk management program on non-professional investors’ willingness to invest and their stock valuation. To fulfil the research objective, a 2X2 between-subjects experiment was designed to test the research hypotheses.

Based on a sample of 64 MBA and postgraduate students in the Faculty of Commerce, Alexandria University and ESLSCA University, the researcher found evidence that high assurance quality (Big4 auditor) and reasonable assurance level conveyed in the assurance report on cybersecurity risk management program have a significant and positive effect on investors’ willingness to invest and their stock valuation. However, the researcher didn’t find significant difference in investors’ willingness to invest or their stock valuation in case a limited assurance report is offered by a Big4 audit firm in comparison with the case of a reasonable assurance report offered by a non-Big4 audit firm. This study adds an experimental evidence to the literature on non-audit services and cybersecurity and will help in reducing the accounting research gap related to cybersecurity risk management program, which is consistent with the Egyptian government’s efforts and attention paid to cybersecurity and its related risks.

Keywords: cybersecurity, assurance quality, assurance level, non-professional investors, Egypt.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Badawy, Hebatallah, The Impact of Assurance Quality and Level on Cybersecurity Risk Management Program on Non-Professional Egyptian Investors’ Decisions: An Experimental Study (August 28, 2021). Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 5, Issue 3, 2021., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3913336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Al-Moshaigeh , D Dickins , J Higgs
Cybersecurity Risks and Controls: Is the AICPA's SOC for Cybersecurity a Solution?
The CPA Journal , volume 89 , issue 6 , p. 36 - 41 Posted: 2019
Description Criteria for Management's Description of an Entity's Cybersecurity Risk Management Program
AICPA Assurance Services Executive Committee Posted: 2017
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley , C Hogan
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2017
R Banham
Cybersecurity: A New Engagement Opportunity
Journal of Accountancy , volume 224 , issue 4 , p. 28 - 32 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
255,505
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies