Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research on International Standards on Auditing: Literature Synthesis and Opportunities for Future Research

52 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2021

Elina Haapamäki

University of Vaasa

Jukka Sihvonen

Aalto University

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Research on International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) would greatly benefit from a research framework that categorizes the research streams related to ISAs and suggests areas for future research. This paper reviews the current research related to ISAs and develops a framework for analysis going forward. We identify seven main research streams: the development and history of ISAs; adoption of ISAs; association between national auditing standards and ISAs; financial reporting quality; audit reports; audit efficiency; and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) compliance. For each research stream, the main results are summarized. At the conclusion of our literature reviews for each research stream, we suggest areas requiring further examination.

Keywords: Auditing, International Standards on Auditing, ISA, Harmonization

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Haapamäki, Elina and Sihvonen, Jukka, Research on International Standards on Auditing: Literature Synthesis and Opportunities for Future Research (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3923639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3923639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
A Alon , P D Dwyer
Early adoption of IFRS as a strategic response to transnational and local influences
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 348 - 370 Posted: 2014
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
J C Bedard , R Simnett , J A Devoe-Talluto
Auditors' consideration of fraud: How behavioral research can address the concerns of standard setters
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 4 , p. 77 - 101 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
230,843
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies