Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Auditors’ Review of Inconsistent Audit Evidence

27 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2021 Last revised: 5 Mar 2024

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Christy Nielson

University of Mississippi; University of Mississippi

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether adopting a promotion focus while reviewing working papers helps auditors identify more inconsistencies among evidence items relative to those adopting a prevention focus. A promotion focus broadens attention and encourages big picture thinking, while a prevention focus narrows attention and encourages avoiding mistakes. We expect that under typical audit conditions, auditors adopt a prevention focus. Reviewers risk missing conclusion deficiencies if they do not identify inconsistencies during their review of evidence. We expect and find that a promotion focus improves reviewers’ detection of conclusion deficiencies when considering inconsistent evidence. Specifically, we find that a promotion focus increases reviewers’ holistic thinking, documentation of inconsistencies among evidence items, and communication of significant issues to the engagement manager, which increases the likelihood that the issues will be resolved appropriately. Thus, changing the way reviewers approach their task can improve the quality of audit outcomes.

Keywords: Audit review, inconsistent evidence, nonfinancial measures, red flags, regulatory focus

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Leiby, Justin and Nielson, Christy, Improving Auditors’ Review of Inconsistent Audit Evidence (February 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3925542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
A A Austin , T Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The Data Analytics Journey: Interactions among Auditors, Managers, Regulation, and Technology , volume 38 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
248,130
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies