Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Valuation Specialists in Audits of Fair Values and Potential for Change under Amended PCAOB Standards

64 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

The PCAOB recently implemented amended standards on the use of valuation specialists. We report interviews with 42 auditors and valuation specialists in which we describe the role of valuation specialists and the problems during fair value audits under the original guidance. We evaluate whether the amended guidance will change practice and mitigate the problems. We find that specialists are more involved in fieldwork relative to planning and completion. Despite changes to communication and review requirements, specialists’ limited role in making conclusions relative to auditors will continue. Our analysis suggests that the changes in standards are unlikely to meaningfully change practice. We expect little change because the amended standards will not increase specialists’ responsibility for outcomes or provide them additional guidance, they will not require auditors to acquire valuation knowledge, and they cannot reduce the inherent uncertainty in fair value settings. These issues underlie many of the problems in this area.

Keywords: Accounting estimates, Auditing, Fair value, Specialist

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Hammersley, Jacqueline S., The Role of Valuation Specialists in Audits of Fair Values and Potential for Change under Amended PCAOB Standards (June 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D Barr-Pulliam , J R Joe , S A Mason , K Sanderson
The auditor-valuation specialist coopetitive alliance in the fair value audit of complex financial instruments Posted: 2020
D Barr-Pulliam , S A Mason , K Sanderson
Should I stay or should I go?: The joint effects of valuation specialists' domain knowledge and employer type on perceptions of organizational-professional conflict Posted: 2020
T D Bauer , C R Estep
One team or two? Investigating relationship quality between auditors and IT specialists: Implications for audit team identity and the audit process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 2142 - 2177 Posted: 2019
J E Boritz , N Kochetova , L A Robinson , C Wong
Auditors' and specialists' views about the use of specialists during an audit
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 15 - 40 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
386,928
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies