Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Words: An Empirical Analysis of the Communicative Value of Extended Auditor Reports

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021

Andreas Seebeck

Jacobs University Bremen

Devrimi Kaya

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the communicative value of extended auditor reports in the United Kingdom (UK), where ISA 700 (UK and Ireland) requires auditors to disclose the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the audit—key audit matters (KAM). By using methods from computational linguistics, we find that different proxies for communicative value (i.e., readability, evaluative content, visual aids, and specificity) improve in post-ISA 700 periods. Cross-sectional tests show that the improvement differs across audit firms and audit clients as well as KAM disclosure characteristics. Finally, broadly consistent with concurrent studies, we find no evidence that several proxies for communicative value are informative to investors. However, we find initial evidence that a more specific description of KAM is significantly and positively associated with capital market reactions, suggesting that investors value precise information. Overall, this study directly responds to the call for more research on how KAM are worded.

Keywords: extended auditor reporting, communicative value, key audit matters (KAM), critical audit matters (CAM), textual analysis, specificity

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Seebeck, Andreas and Kaya, Devrimi, The Power of Words: An Empirical Analysis of the Communicative Value of Extended Auditor Reports (October 1, 2021). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
K Allee , M Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
L Argote , B Mcevily , R Reagans
Managing knowledge in organizations: An integrative framework and review of emerging themes
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 582 Posted: 2003
V Beattie , M J Jones
The use and abuse of graphs in annual reports: Theoretical framework and empirical study
Accounting and Business Research , volume 22 , issue 88 , p. 291 - 303 Posted: 1992
J Bédard , P Coram , R Espahbodi , T J Mock
Does recent academic research support changes to audit reporting standards? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
743
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,080
RANK
78,434
16 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies