Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The future of audit after the Wirecard Accounting scandal – Proposal for a change in the payment model

12 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2, 2021

Abstract

Auditors take over a crucial role in corporate governance and capital markets. A main contribution of auditors is to enhance firms ‘cost of capital by fostering trust among public and private investors. Moreover, auditors have to discipline corporate insiders to avoid misbehavior
and prevent financial fraud. In order to fulfill these obligations, however, in addition to adequate
knowledge, skills and expertise, auditors must act in an independent manner. Unfortunately,
auditors are still explicitly subject to a major conflict of interest, resulting from the fact that they
act as an agent and are hired and paid by the principal audited company. Despite many accounting
scandals Enron, Parmalat, Satyam in the past and most recently Wirecard this very often observed
conflict within academia, was not subject to any reform or rehearsal. Policymakers and scholars
around the world have tried to remediate the auditor independence puzzle through a variety of
mechanisms such as prohibitions and rotation of auditors. This article looks at recent accounting
scandal of Germany’s based Wirecard with an attempt to rigorously define an enhancement in the
payment model between principal and agent contractual relation. Addressing this conflict and
providing remediation provides a large value enhancement potential for the capital market. Even if
auditors assumed to act independently in the best of their knowledge and their professional attitude, investors as knowing this conflict of interest will think otherwise and incorporate into the
company’s risk assessment for corporate valuation. Drawing from corporate governance, law and
economics, and accounting literature, this article proposes a new payment model to solve the
auditor’s principal-agent conflict. Regulators should set-up a funds, which pays the auditors. All
companies would need to pay a contribution to a funds. This payment model is known and working
since decades in the banking industry. Under this model the type of services potentially provided
to the audit client are not restricted.


Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, The future of audit after the Wirecard Accounting scandal – Proposal for a change in the payment model (October 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3934773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Acemoglu References , D Gietzmann , M B
Auditor independence, incomplete contracts and the role of legal liability
European Accounting Review , volume 6 , p. 355 - 375 Posted: 1997
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
Comparative and International Corporate Governance
The Academy of Management Annals , volume 4 , p. 485 - 556 Posted: 2010
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 Posted: 1970
M H Bazerman , D Moore
Is it time for auditor independence yet? Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 36 , p. 310 - 312 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
632
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,781
RANK
23,545
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies