Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging the synergies between design science and behavioral science research methods

Sutton, S.G., V. Arnold, P.A. Collier, and S.A. Leech. 2021. Leveraging the synergies between design science and behavioral science methods. International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 43: 100536. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2021.100536]

Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Philip A. Collier

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Stewart A. Leech

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 2021

Abstract

For over two decades, information systems researchers have grappled with defining what constitutes good design science research. With too many older papers simply documenting the development of systems without a clear message of the contribution to science, design science fell out of favor with the information systems and related disciplines. With the emergence of intelligent systems and the re-shaping of knowledge work, substantial effort has recently focused on articulating what constitutes a design science research contribution. In recent years, however, the discussion on the role of behavioral theory and behavioral research in complementing design science research has faded away. In this paper, we argue for a broader view on the synergies of behavioral and design science research with an emphasis on the greater role that behavioral science can take in shaping and validating design science research and motivating future research. Behavioral science has a very important role to play in understanding not only how technology achieves positive changes, but in also bringing advanced technologies out of the shadows to the scrutiny of science with its willingness to question the real impact of the technologies including potentially deleterious effects. At the same time, there is a need to recognize that behavioral research related to advanced technologies can benefit greatly from embracing design science research as an integral piece of an effective research program. Orlikowski and Iacono (2001) argue that too often IT artifacts are taken for granted and treated as a passive box for study. The challenge for behavioral science is to engage more deeply and seriously with the properties of the artifact. Arnold and Sutton (1998) emphasize this role of the artifact in studying human-computer interaction with intelligent systems. They argue that experienced users’ engagement with a system is reliant on the user establishing a cognitive fit with the decision-making models of the system that creates trust in the system, and this would very rarely occur absent experience engaging with a functional system. In an intelligent system, the technology ideally becomes something akin to an electronic colleague where system and user trade off control and processing. This experience is difficult to create in a behavioral science study without the user engaging with a working artifact where cognitive fit can be adequately judged by the user. The methodology and demonstrated instantiation we present also have important implications for contemporary accounting and auditing research specifically. At a time when intelligent systems, including business intelligence and advanced data analytics, promise to transform accounting and auditing work, design science and behavioral science researchers working synergistically will be critical to providing guidance. As the speed of technological change increases, there is a need for cooperation and respect among both behavioral and design researchers for science to guide technological change and not be simply used to evaluate the history after the benefits or the damage have occurred. We use the INSOLVE program of research (a 20-year mix of research papers that execute a systematic progression using both behavioral and design science research methods) as a proof of concept for how this synergistic relationship can be leveraged.

Keywords: Design Science, Behavioral Science, Intelligent Systems, Data Analytics, Insolvency, Auditing, Knowledge Work, Artifact Network

JEL Classification: M15, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G. and Arnold, Vicky and Collier, Philip A. and Leech, Stewart A., Leveraging the synergies between design science and behavioral science research methods (October 2021). Sutton, S.G., V. Arnold, P.A. Collier, and S.A. Leech. 2021. Leveraging the synergies between design science and behavioral science methods. International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 43: 100536. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2021.100536], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3939212
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies