Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Research Frameworks in a Changing World: The Case of Audit Data Analytics

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2021 Last revised: 9 Jun 2022

Klaus Ruhnke

Freie Universitaet Berlin - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: June 02, 2022

Abstract

Advances in data analytics is fundamentally changing the field of auditing. The primary objective of this paper is to develop a holistic, multidimensional framework to better understand the dynamics of the diffusion of audit data analytics (ADA). The framework we developed covers categories related to the diffusion of ADA (the technology, the actors using it, the external rules that regulate it) and the actors reproducing the rules and technologies (focusing on the audit process, cognitive processes). We analyze the key findings from 40 empirical studies within and across the interrelated categories of the framework. The findings emphasize that a better understanding of auditors’ judgment and decision making (cognitive processes) is fundamental for a study of the diffusion of ADA. Primary drivers of fundamental changes include audit quality, audit efficiency and the expectation gap. Our results suggest that ADA competencies should be a professional priority. In addition, conceptual issues (the audit risk model, the concepts of audit evidence, audit assertions) and materiality considerations need to be resolved. A solution of these problems is a prerequisite for in-depth changes to audit standards, which in turn will also open the door to the diffusion of ADA.

Keywords: Audit, audit evidence, big data, data analytics, empirical research, framework

JEL Classification: D91, M42, O30

Suggested Citation:

Ruhnke, Klaus, Empirical Research Frameworks in a Changing World: The Case of Audit Data Analytics (June 02, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3941961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
156 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: a synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
Acca
Banishing bias? Audit, objectivity and the value of professional scepticism Posted: 2017-06-02
A Alawadhi , K D Allee , B Baik , Y Roh
Detecting financial misreporting with real production activity
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1581 - 1615 Posted: 2015-06-02
M G Alles , G L Gray
Incorporating big data in audits: identifying inhibitors and a research agenda to address those inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016
Load more
2 Citations
Debbi Chyntia Ovami , Iskandar Muda
Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Green Technology (ICGT 2022)
, volume 221 , p. 93 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Dereck Barr‐Pulliam , Helen L. Brown‐Liburd , Ivy Munoko
The effects of person‐specific, task, and environmental factors on digital transformation and innovation in auditing: A review of the literature
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 337 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
640
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,507
RANK
95,379
2 Citations
156 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies