Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Increased Competition on Smallsized Auditors in Taiwan: Fight or Flight?

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 15 (1) p. 1-17

17 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2021

Yahn-Shir Chen

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Yi-Fang Yang

Chang Jung Christian University

Ching-I Huang

Kaohsiung Medical University - Hepatitis Center and Hepatobiliary Division

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Taiwan established the Certified Public Bookkeepers Act to regulate tax agents in providing services to small and medium-sized enterprises in 2004. The Act enhances the capabilities of tax agents in competing business with auditors. Auditors face increased competition in rendering services to the same target clients as tax agents. What is the responding measure, fight or flight, for auditors? Based on both economic theory and business competitive strategy theory, this study investigates the effects of the Certified Public Bookkeepers Act in 2004 on small-sized auditors in Taiwan. Empirical results indicate that both businesses and operating performance of auditors are better after the regulation, consistent with the responding measure of fight. This study contributes knowledge to the literature and conveys managerial implication to the practitioners.

Keywords: Tax Agents, Auditors, Proprietorship Public Accounting Firms, Operating Performance

JEL Classification: M41, L51

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yahn-Shir and Yang, Yi-Fang and Huang, Ching-I, Effects of Increased Competition on Smallsized Auditors in Taiwan: Fight or Flight? (2021). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 15 (1) p. 1-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
G R Aldhizer , J R Miller , J E Moraglio
Common Attributes of Quality Audits
Journal of Accountancy , volume 179 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 68 Posted: 1995
A Ballas , I Fafaliou
Market Shares and Concentration in the EU Auditing Industry: The Effects of Andersen's Demise
International Advances in Economic Research , volume 14 , p. 485 - 497 Posted: 2008
R D Banker , H Chang , R Natarajan
Productivity Change, Technical Progress, and Relative Efficiency Change in the Public Accounting Industry
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 20 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 2005
V Brocheler , S Maijoor , A V Witteloostuijn
Auditor Human Capital and Public Accounting Firm Survival: the Dutch Audit Industry in 1930-1992
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 627 - 646 Posted: 2004-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies