Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combined Effects of Auditing and Discretionary Accruals on the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Spanish SMEs

SAGE Open, 11 (4), 1-17

17 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2021

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

Previous literature shows mixed evidence on the effect of discretionary accruals and auditing on the cost of debt. We hypothesize that, in the SMEs setting, auditing can act as a substitute for accruals quality, and thus audits may mitigate the effect of discretionary accruals on the cost of debt. Using a sample of Spanish SMEs, we find that auditing is negatively related with the cost of debt, while higher discretionary accruals are related with a lower cost of debt. Nonetheless, this effect is lower than that one observed for audits. When considering the combined effect of both variables, the effect of discretionary accruals is replaced by that of auditing. These results suggest that, among SMEs, discretionary accruals do not have a relevant effect on the cost of debt when companies are audited, supporting the hypothesis that there exists a substitution effect between discretionary accruals and auditing.

Keywords: auditing, discretionary accruals, credibility, accounting quality, cost of debt, SMEs

JEL Classification: M42, G32

Suggested Citation:

Gandía, Juan L. and Huguet, David, Combined Effects of Auditing and Discretionary Accruals on the Cost of Debt: Evidence From Spanish SMEs (October 18, 2021). SAGE Open, 11 (4), 1-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3945513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
H Aldamen , K Duncan
Pricing of innate and discretionary accruals in Australian debt
Accounting and Finance , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 53 Posted: 2013
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
L Arnedo , F Lizarraga , S Sánchez
The role of accounting accruals for the prediction of future cash flows: Evidence from Spain
SERIEs , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 499 - 520 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
RANK
849,077
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies