Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Determinants influence CSR Reporting Assurance Quality? A Systematic Literature Review on Assurer and Content Factors

26 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2021

Theresa Pleye

Independent

Date Written: August 8, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This systematic literature review aims at identifying relevant quality factors of CSR assurance statements. Using a signaling theory (Spence, 1973) framework, this review analyses and contextualizes current literature.

Design/methodology/approach: I develop a framework based on the PRISMA framework (Moher et al., 2009) to systemically identify relevant literature. With this approach, the initial sample of 519 papers was reduced to 32 high-quality journal papers.

Findings: I identify four categories of quality factors for CRS assurance quality. In this review, I focus on the categories “assurance provider” and “content factors” and their interdependencies. This review reveals that the current literature on assurance providers is limited to the pure differentiation between accounting and non-accounting providers and fails at identifying underlying reasons apart from the reputational capital. Literature on content factors achieved a list of quality factors and shows signs of consensus as well as the start to assign the quality factors to specific stakeholder groups to check the plausibility of opposing factors.

Research limitations: The main limitations of the current literature, future research possibilities and recommendations are presented.

Originality/value: This review is, to my best knowledge, the first review on quality factors of CSR assurance. It contributes to the current state of research by providing detailed insights into the different factors as well as an extensive literature list for future research.

Keywords: CSR assurance quality, Sustainability assurance, sustainability audit

JEL Classification: Q56

Suggested Citation:

Pleye, Theresa, Which Determinants influence CSR Reporting Assurance Quality? A Systematic Literature Review on Assurer and Content Factors (August 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3946612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3946612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
RANK
227,633
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies