Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abnormal Audit Fees and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Korean Audit Market

Behrend, M., S. Khan, Y-W. Ko and S-J. Park. 2020. Abnormal Audit Fees and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Korean Audit Market. Journal of International Accounting Research. 19(3): 37-60.

Posted: 5 Jan 2022

Matthew Behrend

St. Edward’s University

Sarfraz Khan

University of Louisiana at Lafayette

Young Woo Ko

Kyonggi University

Sung-Jin Park

Korea Institute of Public Finance; Indiana University South Bend

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Do abnormally high or low audit fees reflect audit quality? In this paper, we re-examine this issue after controlling for the confounding effect of audit hours by using a sample of public firms in the Korean audit market, which publicly discloses both audit fees and audit hour information. While we do not find a significant association between abnormally high audit fees and audit quality, we find that abnormally low audit fees are associated with larger discretionary accruals and a higher likelihood of meeting or beating analyst earnings forecasts. Further, we find that the relationship between abnormally low audit fees and audit quality indicators persists regardless of the level of audit hours. To the extent that audit hours represent audit effort, these findings suggest that greater audit effort alone may not lead to higher audit quality as fee pressure from abnormally low fees may discourage the provision of high-quality audit services.

Keywords: abnormal audit fees; audit effort; audit quality; audit hours

JEL Classification: M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Behrend, Matthew and Khan, Sarfraz and Ko, Young Woo and Park, Sung-Jin, Abnormal Audit Fees and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Korean Audit Market (April 1, 2020). Behrend, M., S. Khan, Y-W. Ko and S-J. Park. 2020. Abnormal Audit Fees and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Korean Audit Market. Journal of International Accounting Research. 19(3): 37-60., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948949
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies