Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early Earnings Releases and the Role of Accounting Quality

Forthcoming at Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory

58 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 13 Dec 2021

James Whitworth

University of South Florida

Scott Seavey

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Michael Imhof

University of Wyoming

Date Written: December 2, 2021

Abstract

More than half of U.S. public companies announce earnings before audit completion. We examine how accounting quality, as a measure of the ex-ante reliability of earnings, affects the decision to release earnings early. Using four proxies for accounting quality, we show that firms with higher accounting quality are more likely to release earnings before a completed audit, and that the association is stronger when market demand for timely earnings is high. We provide evidence that accounting quality remains important in the timing of earnings release even after controlling for other factors which affect earnings reliability, such as managerial ability, auditor tenure, and financial reporting problems in a prior period. Overall we emphasize the role of accounting quality in the complex process of when to release earnings relative to audit completion, and suggest that the importance of the audit in the earnings release decision varies based on firm-specific accounting quality.

Keywords: audit completion, earnings release, earnings reliability

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Whitworth, James and Seavey, Scott and Imhof, Michael, Early Earnings Releases and the Role of Accounting Quality (December 2, 2021). Forthcoming at Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
S Arif , N Marshall , J Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
R Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
RANK
397,014
2 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies