Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of a Limited Liability Agreement and Audit Firm Size on Bank Loan Officers’ Perceptions of Privately Held Companies’ Creditworthiness

Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, In Press

27 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 24 Jan 2022

Aisha Meeks

Morehouse College

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Date Written: January 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine how auditors’ use of limited liability agreements (LLAs) impact perceptions of private company creditworthiness in a 2×2 between-subjects experiment. Ninety-three United States-based bank loan officers evaluate whether LLA clauses and the size of the company’s external auditor impact lending decisions. We use signaling theory to predict, and we find that LLAs decrease perceived creditworthiness, mainly when the company engages a Non-Big4 auditor. We find no difference in perceived creditworthiness when the company employs a Big4 firm, irrespective of including an LLA clause. Supplemental analyses show that lenders perceive that LLA clauses signal higher credit risk and, in turn, decrease perceived creditworthiness. We offer insights into how lenders integrate information about privately held companies into their decisions, which could impact the cost of capital for private companies. Our study should be of interest to preparers and the varied users of financial statements and regulators.

Keywords: limited liability; signaling theory; creditworthiness; risk assessment; financial reporting quality; private companies

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Meeks, Aisha and Barr-Pulliam, Dereck, The Effects of a Limited Liability Agreement and Audit Firm Size on Bank Loan Officers’ Perceptions of Privately Held Companies’ Creditworthiness (January 23, 2022). Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, In Press, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3955891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3955891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
K Allee , T Yohn , T L
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
AICPA's code of professional conduct Posted: 2013-06-06
H S Asay , R Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory Testing and Process Evidence in Accounting Experiments. The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
RANK
514,796
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies