Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of External Auditing in Reducing Creative Accounting Practices

11 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021

Bayar Ismeal

Erbil Polytechnic University

Hassan Mahmood Aziz

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Sarhang Sorguli

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Khowanas Qader

Lebanese French University

Bawan Yassin Sabir

Knowledge University - College of Administration and Financial Sciences

Pshdar Abdalla Hamza

Cyprus International University

Bayar Gardi

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Govand Anwar

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: November 7, 2021

Abstract

Abstract— Concerning the auditor's independence, the ongoing debate in the literature is about how to balance the obligations and requirements faced by the auditor in the course of his audit duties with the related provision in place that authorizes additional non-audit services to be provided to the audited clients. Facing the audit profession today, ethical violations that have reduced the audit results in the aftermath of recent financial scandals, where it has already been proven that the world's leading auditing firms were involved in the financial corruption scandals, are the primary challenges auditors will face. The current study aimed to examine external auditingas a determining factor in influencing creative cost accounting. For this reason, the researchers used three different dimensions of external auditing to enable the study to measure creative cost accounting, first type of external auditing was general standard, second type of external auditing was fieldwork standard, third type of external auditing was reporting standard. The study consists of three independent variables (general standard, fieldwork standard, and reporting standard) and
creative cost accounting as dependent variable. The present research applied quantitative research method via adapting questionnaire from academic sources. A random sampling technique was used, where all participants had equal chances of being selected for the sample. The researchers distributed 130 questionnaires, only 125 questionnaires were received and from 125 questionnaires only 117 questionnaires were completed properly. The findings showed that general standard has significant positive influence on creative cost accounting at 5% level. The results show that fieldwork standard has significant positive influence on creative cost accounting at 5% level. The results show that reporting standard has significant positive influence on creative cost accounting at 5% level. Moreover, all beta value is higher than .001. All models have very high adjusted R2 (.711, .671, .736, .644, and .723 respectively) indicating the ability of the models explaining the variation of creative cost accounting due to variation of independent variables is very high. The F-value shows that the explanatory variables are jointly statistically significant in the model and the Durbin-Watson (DW) statistics reveals that there is autocorrelation in the models.

Keywords: Auditing, External Auditing, Fieldwork, Reporting Auditing, General Standard of Auditing.

Suggested Citation:

Ismeal, Bayar and Mahmood Aziz, Hassan and Sorguli, Sarhang and Qader, Khowanas and Sabir, Bawan Yassin and Abdalla Hamza, Pshdar and Gardi, Bayar and Anwar, Govand, The Role of External Auditing in Reducing Creative Accounting Practices (November 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3958431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Gardi
Investigating the effects of Financial Accounting Reports on Managerial Decision Making in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
Turkish Journal of Computer and Mathematics Education (TURCOMAT) , volume 12 , issue 10 , p. 2134 - 2142 Posted: 2021
N B Ismael , S Sorguli , H M Aziz , B Y Sabir , P A Hamza , B Gardi , F R A Al-Kake
The Impact of COVID-19 on Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Iraq
Annals of the Romanian Society for Cell Biology , p. 2496 - 2505 Posted: 2021
B Gardi
The effects of computerized accounting system on auditing process: a case study from northern iraq
, volume 3838327 Posted: 2021
S H Sorguli , F R A Al-Kake
The impact of Accounting Information System on Internal Controls in Iraq , volume 63 , p. 7024 - 7036 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,678
RANK
125,413
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies