Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Liability and Excess Cash Holdings: Evidence from Audit Fees of Foreign Incorporated Firms

51 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2021

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

Auditors of foreign cross listed firms face liability arising from the nature of the institutional monitoring framework of legal claims that can potentially be brought against the auditor in both the home country and the US. This paper is the first to document the relationship between auditor liability and auditor pricing of excess cash holdings for foreign firms cross-listed in the US. Our findings indicate that auditors demand a fee premium for foreign incorporated clients with greater excess cash holdings, consistent with auditors recognizing the potential for legal exposure to agency conflict arising from foreign listed US traded clients. Furthermore, we examine aspects of foreign capital market protections, such as disclosure requirements, the strength of legal enforcement, and the strength of shareholder rights to better understand auditor perception of the liability they incur due to the agency costs associated with excess cash holdings. We find that there is a significant positive association between audit fees and excess cash holdings for firms where the country of incorporation permits greater liability of auditors in criminal and civil litigation. In addition, auditors assign higher audit fees to firms holding greater excess cash incorporated in countries with greater required accounting disclosure, stronger legal enforcement and stronger shareholder rights.

Keywords: Auditor liability, excess cash, agency theory, audit fees, international accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Kimberly C., Auditor Liability and Excess Cash Holdings: Evidence from Audit Fees of Foreign Incorporated Firms (November 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3959480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
W Abdallah , H Goergen
Does corporate control determine the cross-listing location
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2008
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information costs and home bias: an analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
M Alzola
Beware of the watchdog: Rethinking the normative justification of gatekeeper liability
Journal of business ethics , volume 140 , issue 4 , p. 705 - 721 Posted: 2017
Divya Anantharaman
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
RANK
493,078
5 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies