Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female directors, audit effort and financial reporting quality

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Carlos Fernandez

Oviedo University - School of Economics and Business

Shams Pathan

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Date Written: November 19, 2021

Abstract

This paper analyses the influence of female directors on the demand for audit effort and on financial reporting quality for a sample of Australian non-financial listed firms over the period 2004-2018. Our results suggest that gender diversity at the Board and the audit committee have a beneficial impact both on the demand of audit effort and on the outcomes of the audit process. This beneficial effect of female directors is attributable to non-executive directors. Long tenured and busy female directors and women chairing the board or the audit committee are revealed as especially influential at improving audit efforts and outcomes. We obtain further indication that audit effort and reporting quality improve from the first women added to the board not being necessary to attain a certain critical mass to generate these effects. Also, gender diversity improves the external auditor independence though the presence of lower of non-audit fees. The results are robust to endogeneity corrections. Evidence form the Australian market provides a positive argument for small and mid-cap Australian listed firms to follow the path of large Australian listed firms towards gender diversity.

Keywords: Gender diversity, female directors, audit effort, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Fernandez, Carlos and Pathan, Shams, Female directors, audit effort and financial reporting quality (November 19, 2021). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3967087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
256,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies