Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Respond to Clients’ Climate Change-Related External Risks? Evidence From Audit Fees

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 27 Oct 2022

Sven Hartlieb

University of Innsbruck

Brigitte Eierle

University of Bamberg

Date Written: September 24, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether auditors consider their clients’ climate change-related external risks when making audit pricing decisions. Using county-level proxies based on the number of declared natural disasters and the level of societal climate change awareness, we discover that clients with greater exposure to climate change risks pay significantly higher audit fees. After performing several additional tests, we conclude that auditors consider climate change risks and their potential consequences as a systematic business risk that is factored into the audit fees. For instance, we demonstrate that clients’ climate risk exposure has become more strongly associated with audit pricing in recent years, as climate change has gained greater importance in public debate. Moreover, we discover that auditors place a greater emphasis on clients’ climate risks when they themselves are located in regions with higher climate change awareness, indicating that auditors’ climate change perception also matters. Given the growing interest in climate change-related risks in practice and research, as well as the significance expected to be placed on these risks in the future, our findings are timely and should appeal to a wide range of readers, including investors, regulators, and scholars.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Audit Risk, Climate Change, Climate Risk, External Factors

JEL Classification: M42, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Hartlieb, Sven and Eierle, Brigitte, Do Auditors Respond to Clients’ Climate Change-Related External Risks? Evidence From Audit Fees (September 24, 2021). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3970143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
K Aarland , J C Davis , J V Henderson , Y Ono
Spatial organization of firms: the decision to split production and administration
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 480 - 494 Posted: 2007
J Addoum , D Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature Shocks and Industry Earnings News Posted: 2021
K Akerlof , E Maibach , D Fitzgerald , A Cedeno , A Neuman
Do people ''personally experience'' global warming, and if so how, and does it matter?
Global Environmental Change , volume 23 , p. 81 - 91 Posted: 2013
B Asante-Appiah
Does the severity of a client's negative environmental, social and governance reputation affect audit effort and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
563
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
111,976
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies