Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Trait Skepticism and Going-Concern Reporting Decisions

33 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Sanne Janssen

Open University; University of Antwerp

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: December 6, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between audit partners’ professional skepticism and their going-concern reporting decisions. We link publicly-available archival data on audit opinions and companies’ financial characteristics with privately-collected audit partner data on professional skepticism (measured with the Hurtt Professional Skepticism Scale). We find a positive association between partners’ trait skepticism and the likelihood that a partner issues a going-concern opinion to a financially distressed company. In supplemental analyses, we investigate underlying nuances
relating to this association in terms of partner workload, Big 4 affiliation, and alternative measures of trait skepticism. We find that workload is negatively associated with the likelihood of issuing a going-concern opinion, but only when trait skepticism is relatively low; as trait skepticism increases, the probability of receiving a going-concern opinion increases with partner workload. Further, trait skepticism has a larger effect on going-concern reporting for Big 4 partners than for non-Big 4 partners. Alternative measures of trait skepticism prove to be less reliable predictors of partners’ going-concern reporting decisions.

Keywords: professional skepticism, trait skepticism, going-concern, Hurtt scale, workload

JEL Classification: M42, J24

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris and Janssen, Sanne and Vanstraelen, Ann and Zehms, Karla M., Audit Partner Trait Skepticism and Going-Concern Reporting Decisions (December 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia
Why Shouldn't Higher-IQ Audit Partners Deliver Better Audits? A Discussion of "IQ and Audit Quality: Do Smarter Auditors Deliver Better Audits?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 1404 - 1406 Posted: 2019
E Aschauer , M Fink , A Moro , K Van Bakel-Auer , Warming-Rasmussen
Trust and Professional Skepticism in the Relationship between Auditors and Clients: Overcoming the Dichotomy Myth
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 42 Posted: 2017
L S Bhaskar , T M Majors , A Vitalis
Are 'Good' Auditors Impacted More by Depletion? Threats to Valued Auditor Attributes Posted: 2016-11-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
RANK
292,525
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies