Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance and Truthfulness: Leveraging Peer Information with Competitive Audit Mechanisms

62 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Timo Goeschl

Heidelberg University

Andreas Marcel Oestreich

Brock University - Department of Economics

Alice Solda

EM Lyon (Ecole de Management de Lyon) - Emlyon Business School; GATE - CNRS

Abstract

How to design audit mechanisms that harness the benefits of self-reporting for achieving compliance with regulatory targets while limiting misreporting is a pressing questionin many regulatory contexts, from climate policies to public health. We theoretically and experimentally study the relative performance of a competitive audit mechanism inregulating a socially undesirable activity when peer information about others’ activity levels is present or absent. Using random auditing as a benchmark, the analytical frameworkpredicts always more truthful self-reporting under the competitive mechanism and, in the presence of peer information, fully compliant activity levels. A quasi-laboratoryexperiment confirms the core theoretical findings: Under the competitive audit mechanism, reports are more truthful on average and, in the presence of peer information,participants’ average activity levels, while not reaching full compliance, are closer to the social optimum. The experimental results highlight the considerable potential ofcompetitive audit mechanisms for achieving regulatory targets.

Keywords: Regulation, Compliance, tournament theory, quasi-laboratory experiment

Suggested Citation:

Goeschl, Timo and Oestreich, Andreas Marcel and Solda, Alice, Compliance and Truthfulness: Leveraging Peer Information with Competitive Audit Mechanisms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
RANK
730,413
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies