Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) in Auditing

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems

58 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 5 Aug 2022

Chanyuan (Abigail) Parker

The University of Texas at San Antonio, Alvarez College of Business

Soohyun Cho

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: Aug 1, 2022

Abstract

Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) are gaining increasing attention regarding their potential applications in auditing. One major challenge of their adoption in auditing is the lack of explainability of their results. As AI/ML matures, so do techniques that can enhance the interpretability of AI, a.k.a., Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI). This paper introduces XAI techniques to auditing practitioners and researchers. We discuss how different XAI techniques can be used to meet the requirements of audit documentation and audit evidence standards. Furthermore, we demonstrate popular XAI techniques, especially Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Explanations (LIME) and Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP), using an auditing task of assessing the risk of material misstatement. This paper contributes to accounting information systems research and practice by introducing XAI techniques to enhance the transparency and interpretability of AI applications applied to auditing tasks.

Keywords: Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI), Auditing, Machine Learning, Material Restatement, LIME, SHAP

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Parker, Chanyuan (Abigail) and Cho, Soohyun and Vasarhelyi, Miklos, Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) in Auditing (Aug 1, 2022). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,679
RANK
35,327
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies