Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Alignment between Supply Chain Partners and Supplier Audit Fees

The paper is forthcoming in the Journal of Business Finance & Accounting (JBFA).

DOI: 10.1111/jbfa.70011

Posted: 15 Dec 2021 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Rong-Ruey Duh

Tunghai University - Department of Accounting

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Sheng Liu

Northeastern Illinois Univeristy

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether strategic alignment between participants in the same supply chain is associated with supplier audit fees. We hypothesize that strategic alignment between suppliers and customers can mitigate the business and audit risk associated with auditing a supplier firm which will be associated with lower audit fees. We utilize disclosures about major customers to construct a dataset of supplier-customer dyads and then compare the relative strategies of the two parties. The empirical results support our hypothesis that strategic alignment between suppliers and their major customers is associated with lower audit fees for the supplier. We also find that the negative association between strategic alignment and supplier audit fees is more pronounced when auditors are industry specialists. Our results remain robust when using alternative measures of strategic alignment, testing for functional form misspecification, and addressing potential endogeneity.

Keywords: strategic alignment; supply chain; audit risks; audit fees; industry specialist auditors; prospector strategy; defender strategy

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsihui and Duh, Rong-Ruey and Knechel, Warren Robert and Liu, Sheng, Strategic Alignment between Supply Chain Partners and Supplier Audit Fees (November 01, 2024). The paper is forthcoming in the Journal of Business Finance & Accounting (JBFA).
DOI: 10.1111/jbfa.70011
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3982508
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
908
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies