Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Synergizing Auditors and Machines: Evidence from Going Concern Assessment

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2025 Last revised: 24 Jan 2025

Chanyuan (Abigail) Parker

The University of Texas at San Antonio, Alvarez College of Business

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

Amid recent attention over auditors’ ability to properly assess client firms’ going concerns, this study examines the potential for auditor and Machine Learning (ML) collaboration in assessing going concerns. We first examine the comparative performance of auditors and ML. Consistent with bounded rationality, we find that errors in auditor-issued Going Concern Opinions (GCOs) are associated with auditors’ capability, cognitive bias, and constraints. In contrast, we find that ML tends to make mistakes when unobservable information exists that cannot be directly incorporated into ML models. Using a novel approach, we derive a “team” assessment that integrates auditors and ML. Our results show that the team assessments can synergize the relative advantages of auditor and ML, and overcome their relative disadvantages, serving as a potential way of generating higher-quality going concern assessments. Our research has implications for accounting practitioners and regulators regarding auditor-machine collaboration in the “AI era.”

Keywords: Going Concern Opinion, Audit Quality, Professional Judgment, Bounded Rationality, Cognitive Bias, Cognitive Constraints, Man-Machine Collaboration, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Parker, Chanyuan (Abigail) and Gu, Yu and Vasarhelyi, Miklos, Synergizing Auditors and Machines: Evidence from Going Concern Assessment (May 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3984462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Stewart Jones
A literature survey of corporate failure prediction models
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 364 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
RANK
219,016
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies