Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Engagement in Charities and Client Financial Reporting Quality

55 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2022 Last revised: 7 Jul 2023

Gus De Franco

Purdue University

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Date Written: July 6, 2023

Abstract

This study uses large-sample archival data to examine the relation between audit partners’ charity engagement and their full-time job performance. Volunteering in a critical position at a charity may reflect innate personality traits that lead to better partner performance. However, charity engagement can decrease audit partners’ available working time and may, therefore, negatively impact their performance and clients’ financial reporting quality. Using accounting misstatements as our primary measure of financial reporting quality, we find a positive relation between volunteering and job performance: financial reporting quality is higher for the clients of audit partners who volunteer at a charity. The relation is more pronounced when the partner volunteers to serve as the charity’s board chair or donates to the charity. Although we study just one type of professional, our results speak to the broader question of the benefits and costs of volunteering.

Keywords: audit partner; volunteer; charity; audit quality; financial reporting quality; restatements.

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

De Franco, Gus and Ji, Yuan and Zhang, Yinqi, Audit Partner Engagement in Charities and Client Financial Reporting Quality (July 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3985683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
E Amir , J.-P Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
J Andreoni
Giving with impure altruism: Applications to charity and Ricardian equivalence
Journal of Political Economy , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 1447 - 1458 Posted: 1989
_____
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: A theory of warm glow giving
The Economic Journal , volume 100 , issue 401 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,102
RANK
241,038
2 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies