Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Assurance and Provider Choice: A Meta-Analysis

35 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Nava Subramaniam

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Laura Sierra-García

University of Pablo de Olavide

Mike Kend

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

Although independent assurance of sustainability reports has been widely researched, the overall findings remain contradictory and inconsistent. Two widely researched-questions are: What determines whether companies will obtain independent assurance? What determines whether they will choose a higher-quality provider of assurance? We attempt to resolve the uncertainty surrounding these issues by conducting a meta-regression analysis. The weight of evidence reveals that organizations obtaining assurance of their sustainability reports is associated not only with being in the oil industry or being a utility, but also with greater agency costs indicated by larger organizational size. Obtaining assurance from a higher-quality provider is associated with an industry that is more environmentally sensitive and with being in a stakeholder-oriented country. There is little or mixed evidence of an association with several variables that are expected to be related, including corporate governance. The results from early studies (2010 and earlier) are significantly different from those of more recent studies.

Keywords: JEL: M42 Sustainability assurance, assurance provider, auditor choice, corporate social responsibility, sustainability reporting, auditin

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Subramaniam, Nava and Sierra-García, Laura and Kend, Mike, Sustainability Assurance and Provider Choice: A Meta-Analysis (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3986636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3986636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
Studies included in the meta-analysis
C A Adams
Factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Moving on from extant theories
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Board gender diversity and sustainability reporting quality
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 222 Posted: 2016
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Credibility of sustainability reports: The contribution of audit committees
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 973 - 986 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
RANK
297,327
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies