Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Firm Characteristics on the Relationship between the Audit Style and Firm-pair Earnings Comparability: An Evidence from Listed Firms on the Egyptian Stock Exchange

Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches (SJFCSR) Faculty of Commerce – Damietta University Vol.2, No.2, Part 1, July 2021 URL: https://cfdj.journals.ekb.eg/article_162819.html

50 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

Safaa Saleh

Alexandria University

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This research aims to study and investigate the relationship between the audit style and earnings comparability. Also, the research examines the influence of some firm-specific characteristics, as moderating variables, on this relationship.
Design/Methodology – Ordinary Least-Squares (OLS) regression and multiple regressions are used to test the research hypotheses. The sample used in the current study consists of 57 non-financial firms listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) during 2016–2019 resulting in a final sample of 1,039 firm-pair year observations.
Findings – The researcher concludes that the audit style, as measured by whether each firm-pair is audited by the same audit firm, has a significant positive effect on the earnings comparability, as measured by the differences in the discretionary accruals between firm-pairs. Besides, the positive effect of the audit style on earnings comparability has been strengthened under the presence of the firm size as a moderating variable, but it does not vary by the leverage and profitability moderating variables. These findings are robust since the results of the sensitivity analyses, using the Big 4 audit firms and the differences in the operating cash flows as alternative measures to the audit style and earnings comparability, respectively, support the results of the basic analysis. However, the results under the additional analysis indicate that all firm characteristics have a significant positive effect on the differences in the discretionary accruals which, in turn, means a negative effect on earnings comparability.
Originality/value – To the best of the researcher’s knowledge, there is relatively limited evidence on the comparability of earnings, as measured by the differences in discretionary accruals between firm-pairs, and its association with the audit style under the presence of firm characteristics as moderating variables. Furthermore, the findings of this research have some implications for researchers, audit firms, and regulatory bodies who seek to enhance the quality of the financial statements in emerging economies.


Keywords: Earnings Comparability; Audit Style; Firm-specific Characteristics

JEL Classification: M4; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Saleh, Safaa A. M., The Moderating Effect of Firm Characteristics on the Relationship between the Audit Style and Firm-pair Earnings Comparability: An Evidence from Listed Firms on the Egyptian Stock Exchange (July 1, 2021). Scientific Journal for Financial and Commercial Studies and Researches (SJFCSR) Faculty of Commerce – Damietta University Vol.2, No.2, Part 1, July 2021 URL: https://cfdj.journals.ekb.eg/article_162819.html, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
864,731
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies