Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Partner Diversity on Audit Quality: Evidence from China

Abacus, Forthcoming.

Posted: 22 Dec 2021

Kevin Koh

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Nanyang Business School

Li Li

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Xuejiao Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Chunfei Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effects of audit partner diversity on audit quality. Using a sample of Chinese listed companies from 2004 to 2018, we find that audit quality is positively associated with audit partner diversity in educational background, gender, and generational cohort. These findings suggest that diverse partner teams outperform homogenous teams and support the information perspective that audit partner diversity produces different viewpoints and perspectives, thus reducing judgment biases and leading to higher audit quality. Furthermore, we find that client information asymmetry, auditor task motivation, and task ability play a moderating role in reinforcing the positive effects of audit partner diversity on audit quality. Our findings provide practical implications for audit firm personnel dispatching and team formation, and heighten the need to integrate team dynamics in the audit quality framework.

Keywords: audit partner diversity, audit quality, client information asymmetry, auditor task motivation, auditor task ability, audit team formation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Koh, Kevin and Li, Li and Liu, Xuejiao and Wang, Chunfei, The Effect of Audit Partner Diversity on Audit Quality: Evidence from China (December 20, 2021). Abacus, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3991471
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies