Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extended Audit Report, Auditor Disclosure Tone and Cost of Debt: Evidence From the UK

54 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Tarek Abdelfattah

Portsmouth Business School

Mohamed Elmahgoub

Southampton Business School - Department of Accounting; Mansoura University - Department of Accounting

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: June 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates the effect of the extended audit reporting (EAR) adoption on firms’ cost of borrowing. Employing an extensive sample of UK firms over an 8-year period in which we cover pre- and post-significant structural changes in the audit market, our findings are three-fold. First, our results suggest that EAR adoption is significantly and negatively related to the pricing of debt capital. Second, we find that the tone of an EAR is associated with the cost of debt, with a net positive tone having a significant and negative impact on debt pricing. Finally, consistent with the auditors’ perception of firms’ risks, our findings show that the number and/or length of risk of material misstatements that are disclosed as key audit matters are positively associated with lenders’ evaluation of firms’ risk. These results support our predictions that EAR may reduce monitoring costs and convey more credible information to debt providers about auditees’ actual level of risk exposures. These results have significant implications for audit firms, corporate leaders, policymakers and regulatory bodies.

Keywords: Extended auditor report; auditor disclosure tone; cost of debt; key audit matters; UK.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Abdelfattah, Tarek and Elmahgoub, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G., Extended Audit Report, Auditor Disclosure Tone and Cost of Debt: Evidence From the UK (June 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3993982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3993982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
RANK
190,354
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies