Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Extended Audit Reports in Enhancing Goodwill Impairment Recognition: Evidence from UK Firms

39 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2021 Last revised: 20 Jun 2025

Mohamed Elmahgoub

Southampton Business School - Department of Accounting; Mansoura University - Department of Accounting

Julia A Smith

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Tarek Abdelfattah

Portsmouth Business School

Date Written: April 8, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the potential role of extended audit reporting in monitoring auditees’ complex accounting estimates focusing on the recognition of goodwill impairment. The study findings show an improvement in the recognition of goodwill impairment loss following the EAR's adoption. In particular, the association between economic impairment indicators and recognised goodwill impairment is much stronger post the EAR adoption. Moreover, this relationship is more pronounced when auditors flag goodwill impairment as a risk matter. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential role EAR could play in controlling discretionary management behaviour, supporting the auditor's role in promoting confidence, reinforcing trust in the financial information, and hence mitigating the agency problem. The results inform regulators and stakeholders on the consequences of the regulatory change in audit reporting model.

Keywords: Extended audit report, Goodwill impairment, Financial reporting quality, Agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Elmahgoub, Mohamed and Smith, Julia A and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Abdelfattah, Tarek, The Role of Extended Audit Reports in Enhancing Goodwill Impairment Recognition: Evidence from UK Firms (April 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3995701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3995701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female audit partners and extended audit reporting: UK evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , issue 1 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2021
Acca
Key Audit Matters: Unlocking the secrets of the audit Posted: 2018
B T Albersmann , R Quick
The Impact of Audit Quality Indicators on the Timeliness of Goodwill Impairments: Evidence from the German Setting. Abacus , volume 56 , p. 66 - 103 Posted: 2020
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Examining the Patterns of Goodwill Impairments in Europe and the US
Accounting in Europe , volume 13 , p. 329 - 352 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
RANK
361,062
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies