Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Cultural Heritage and the Pricing of Audit Services

Forthcoming at Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

50 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2022

Anh Pham

Newcastle Business School, University of Newcastle

Mia Pham

Massey University

Cameron Truong

Monash University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: December 29, 2021

Abstract

We construct preferences towards risk and uncertainty as reflected in the cultural heritage of CEOs managing public firms in the U.S. We demonstrate that auditors take into account cultural traits of CEOs in the pricing of their audit services. We also show CEO cultural heritage is associated with a firm’s misreporting, internal control weakness, and accounting conservatism. The results are robust to controlling for other known attributes of CEOs, firm characteristics, and corporate governance. Our study contributes to research on corporate risk culture, CEO characteristics, and determinants of the pricing of audit services and financial reporting quality.

Keywords: corporate culture, cultural heritage, risk preference, uncertainty avoidance, audit pricing, CEOs, reporting quality

JEL Classification: G32, H25, H26, M40

Suggested Citation:

Pham, Anh Viet and Pham, Mia and Truong, Cameron, CEO Cultural Heritage and the Pricing of Audit Services (December 29, 2021). Forthcoming at Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3996470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
R Abramitzky , L P Boustan , K Eriksson
A nation of immigrants: Assimilation and economic outcomes in the age of mass migration
Journal of Political Economy , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 506 Posted: 2014
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
918
RANK
444,235
4 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies