Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Audit Quality at Public Accounting Firms

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Kartini; Pontoh, G.T; Yolanda, A.M.W. (2021). Determinants of Audit Quality at Public Accounting Firms, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 6(3), 134 – 143. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2021.6.3(3)

10 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2022

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Audrey Michelle Wenny Yolanda

Department of Accounting, Universitas Hasanuddin, 90245, Makassar, Indonesia

Kartini Kartini

Department of Accounting, Universitas Hasanuddin, 90245, Makassar, Indonesia

Grace T. Pontoh

Department of Accounting, Universitas Hasanuddin, 90245, Makassar, Indonesia

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to examine and prove the effect of education, experience and audit fee on audit quality.

Methodology – The data used are primary data in the form of questionnaires distributed to auditors, both senior and junior auditors at Public Accounting Firms located in Sulawesi. The questionnaires distributed to respondents were 46 auditors and 42 questionnaires were returned and able to processed.

Findings – This research used a quantitative approach by measuring the objective data through scientific calculations, derived from samples of certain objects to answer a number of questions. The sampling technique used in this study is purposive sampling by using certain criteria and the model used is multiple linear regression analysis. The results of this study indicate that education, experience and audit fee have an effect on audit quality.

Novelty – Audit quality is a representation of the auditor's performance as an audit service provider and also the auditee as an audit service user. As a liaison between the interests of financial statement users and the company, auditors are required to improve the quality of their services which in turn will have an impact on quality of the audit results. Auditors with adequate education and experience and appropriate audit fee in performing audit services will have an effect on the quality of the resulting audit.

Type of Paper - Empirical

Keywords: Audit, Education, Experience, Fee, Quality

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Wenny Yolanda, Audrey Michelle and Kartini, Kartini and Pontoh, Grace T., Determinants of Audit Quality at Public Accounting Firms (December 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Kartini; Pontoh, G.T; Yolanda, A.M.W. (2021). Determinants of Audit Quality at Public Accounting Firms, J. Fin. Bank. Review, 6(3), 134 – 143. https://doi.org/10.35609/jfbr.2021.6.3(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3998798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
241,875
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies