Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impacts of introduction of VAT on the audit profession and economy in the UAE: Auditors’ perspective

Saderuddin, A. and Barghathi, Y., 2018. The impacts of introduction of VAT on the audit profession and economy in the UAE: Auditors' perspective. Accounting and Management Information Systems, 17(3), pp.406-439.

34 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Aisha Saderuddin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yasser Barghathi

Zayed University - College of Business

Date Written: January 8, 2022

Abstract

Commencing 1st January 2018, Value Added Tax (VAT) was made effective in the UAE. The decision was made in light of the fall in oil prices and with the aim of diversifying the country’s revenue to non-hydrocarbon sectors. This paper examines the impacts of introducing VAT on the audit profession and the economy in the UAE. Unlike previous studies which have viewed this topic from a business or consumer perspective, this paper examines it from an auditor’s perspective. Given that this topic relates to a new policy and there isn’t much literature available on it, this study explores the auditors’ perceptions about the implications of this new policy on both; audit profession and the economy. This paper employs semi-structured interviews with auditors from both Big-Four as well as Non-Big-Four audit firms in order to collect data. This research, apart from being a timely and trending topic, may be useful to academicians, tax specialists, auditors, businesses and regulatory bodies. The findings of the study suggest that auditors are optimistic about VAT implementation in the UAE with respect to the growth in the economy in the long run. However, they have mixed perceptions regarding the audit profession and believe that there is no material impact on it due to VAT implementation.

Keywords: VAT, auditors, UAE, perceptions, economy, qualitative, Big 4 and non-Big 4.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Saderuddin, Aisha and Barghathi, Yasser, The impacts of introduction of VAT on the audit profession and economy in the UAE: Auditors’ perspective (January 8, 2022). Saderuddin, A. and Barghathi, Y., 2018. The impacts of introduction of VAT on the audit profession and economy in the UAE: Auditors' perspective. Accounting and Management Information Systems, 17(3), pp.406-439., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
548
RANK
713,739
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies