Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nudging Auditors’ Unconscious to Improve Performance on an Accounting Estimate Task

International Journal of Auditing

Posted: 12 Jan 2022

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Jochen Theis

University of Southern Denmark

Date Written: October 13, 2021

Abstract

Auditing deficiencies related to accounting estimates continue to account for a significant percentage of auditing deficiencies identified during routine inspections. Regulators suggest that a lack of auditors’ professional skepticism may be to blame. We test a skeptical language priming intervention to induce auditors into a skeptical mindset. Additionally, we posit that skeptical language embedded in a firm’s decision aid will induce a skeptical attitude, which we measure in terms of auditors’ beliefs and feelings (i.e., confidence, concern) associated with the reasonableness of management’s estimate. We find that the skeptical language prime has a positive effect on the quality auditors’ cognitive processing and reasonableness judgments. We also find that the skeptical language keeps auditors’ feelings of concern high as opposed to conventional language, which resulted in auditors feeling less concerned. Moreover, we found that auditors’ negative feelings of concern were the primary driver of recommended testing both before and after introducing the firm’s decision aid.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Accounting Estimates, Deliberative Mindset

Suggested Citation:

Nolder, Christine J. and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Theis, Jochen, Nudging Auditors’ Unconscious to Improve Performance on an Accounting Estimate Task (October 13, 2021). International Journal of Auditing, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003479
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
399
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies