Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Other Comprehensive Income on Audit Fees and Audit Report Lag in Egyptian Firms: Does Board Gender Diversity Matter?

The Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Jan 2022 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

karim Mansour

Department of accounting - Faculty of commerce - Cairo university

Emad Sayed Abd Elghaffar

Accounting, Faculty of commerce, Cairo university

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

Purpose-This paper aims to (i) investigate the effect of other comprehensive income (OCI) on audit fees (AF) and audit report lag (ARL), and (ii) test the moderating effect of board gender diversity (BGD) on such relationships.

Design/methodology/approach- This paper uses data extracted from the financial reports for a sample of Egyptian firms from 2013 to 2019, where the data is processed using the Panel Corrected Standards Errors (PCSE), and the Structure Equation Model (SEM).

Findings-The results reveal that (i) the OCI existence and OCI volume have a significant positive effect on AF and ARL, and (ii) the presence of female directors on the board and the percentage of female representation affect the relationship between OCI and AF positively, but this effect on the relationship between OCI and ARL is insignificant.

Research limitations - This paper has some limitations, where the analysis uses a small sample of Egyptian listed firms, as well as, the measures that were used as proxies of the study variables, which do not necessarily express the most suitable ones.

Practical implications - The results of this paper would (i) provide signals to the audit market, the professional bodies in Egypt, and stakeholders about the determinants of AF and ARL, (ii) provide guidelines that support the capital market authority to consider gender diversity in boards of companies taking into considerations its impact on AF and ARL, and (iii) help the accounting setters in emerging economies as Egypt in drafting more suitable standards and guidelines regarding OCI.

Originality/value- This paper adds to the literature on OCI, where it investigates the effect of OCI on ARL, which was not yet studied in prior studies. Also, this paper complements and extends the literature by providing empirical evidence from one of the emerging markets as Egypt about the effect of BGD on the relationships between OCI, AF, and ARL, as these relationships have not been examined before.


Keywords: Other comprehensive income; audit fees; audit report lag; board gender diversity; Egypt.

JEL Classification: M2

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Mansour, karim and Sayed Abd Elghaffar, Emad, Effects of Other Comprehensive Income on Audit Fees and Audit Report Lag in Egyptian Firms: Does Board Gender Diversity Matter? (January 15, 2022). The Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009515
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies