Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Professional Identities: Review And Future Directions

Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2022

Ryan Stack

Acadia University - Fred C. Manning School of Business

Bertrand Malsch

Queen's University - School of Business

Date Written: January 17, 2022

Abstract

Drawing on qualitative field studies, this literature review synthesizes research on the formation of professional identities, from the pre-exposure phase of recruitment, up the hierarchy to staff-, manager- and partner-level work at auditing firms, to the level of those who leave professional service firms to pursue other work. Our analysis highlights the importance of the acquisition of soft skills over technical training in identity building, including the ability to incorporate unwritten rules and norms of professionalism that persist throughout professional careers. Our review reveals a scarcity of studies on the identity formation of managers. We also question the relevance of the literature on the socialization of staff auditors and partners and the impact on their identity. Critically, prior literature on auditor professional identity has emphasized one type of practitioner and setting—Western, urban, and Big 4 oriented—to the exclusion of other sites and perspectives. This emphasis has led to a disconnect between the extant research and the diversity of the realities in which auditing practices and auditors evolve. Thus, this review recognizes a need for new research directions and calls for research on professional services firms outside the Big 4 in new and emerging markets. Additionally, it advocates greater focus on individuals and groups largely excluded from prior research as the face of the profession changes.

Keywords: Auditors, Literature review, Diversity, Professional identity, Big 4 firms

JEL Classification: M41, M42,

Suggested Citation:

Stack, Ryan and Malsch, Bertrand, Auditors' Professional Identities: Review And Future Directions (January 17, 2022). Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 Posted: 2021
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Making Up Accountants: The Organizational and Professional Socialization of Trainee Chartered Accountants Posted: 1998
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of Time: Organizational Time-Reckoning and the Making of Accountants in Two Multi-National Accounting Firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 2 Posted: 2001
Anderson-Organizational
Embedding of Gender Relations in Public Audit Firms. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
208,831
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies