Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Person-specific, Task, and Environmental Factors on Digital Transformation and Innovation in Auditing: A Review of the Literature

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, 33 (2): 337-374

67 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2022 Last revised: 30 Jun 2022

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Helen L. Brown-Liburd

Rutgers University, Newark - Rutgers Business School - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Ivy Munoko

Rutgers University, Newark - Rutgers Business School-Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: June 2022

Abstract

This study reviews literature examining digital transformation in the external audit setting. Our review will inform the standard-setting initiatives of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) related to the use of technology in auditing. We identified 36 articles on digital transformation in the external audit published between 2000 and 2021 across 20 journals ranked A*, A, B, and C on the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC) 2021 Journal Quality List. We also identified 18 advanced working papers. These articles cover conceptual frameworks and archival, experimental, interviews, case studies, and survey research methods. Fifty percent of the published articles appear in A* or A journals, of which nine were published in one of the premier six accounting research journals (i.e., A*) since 2020. This trend is a promising sign that there appears to be increasing interest in publishing digital transformation-related research in these general interest journals. We use the Bonner judgment and decision-making framework, coupled with the four primary data analytic tools, to organize and evaluate the literature. This study examines descriptive and diagnostic analytics; more complex techniques, such as predictive and prescriptive, are not as prevalent. Further, existing research insufficiently addresses how data analytic tools impact auditor judgment and decision-making, providing multiple future inquiry lines.

Keywords: audit innovation, auditor JDM, digital transformation, literature review

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Brown-Liburd, Helen L. and Munoko, Ivy, The Effects of Person-specific, Task, and Environmental Factors on Digital Transformation and Innovation in Auditing: A Review of the Literature (June 2022). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, 33 (2): 337-374, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4012092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
D Appelbaum , R A Nehmer
Using drones in internal and external audits: An exploratory framework
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 113 Posted: 2017
A A Austin , T Carpenter , M H Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics transformation: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2021
S Buchheit , A Dzuranin , C Hux , M E Riley
Data visualization in local accounting firms: Is slow technology adoption rational?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. A15 - A24 Posted: 2020
L A Cooper , D K Holderness , T Sorensen , D A Wood
Robotic process automation in public accounting
Accounting Horizons , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 15 - 35 Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
Arpine Maghakyan , Henry Jarva , Lasse Niemi , Jukka Sihvonen
The effect of audit partner digitalization expertise on audit fees
44 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2020 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 618
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lazarus Fotoh , Tatenda Mugwira
Exploring Large Language Models (ChatGPT) in External Audits: Implications and Ethical Considerations
56 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2023 · Last revised: 5 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 1,134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,835
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,637
RANK
21,308
2 Citations
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies