Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Putting the IT in AudIT Risk: IT Complexity and IT Auditor Mitigation

61 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Vikram Ramadas

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

Jake Sigler

Xavier University - Williams College of Business

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the impact a public company’s information technology (IT) complexity from financial reporting systems has on audit risk. Using proprietary data from the PCAOB, we develop two composite scores of IT complexity. We validate that higher IT complexity is associated with greater core audit effort, fees, relatively more IT audit effort, and more auditor-identified risks. Despite our finding that the auditor identifies more audit risk for clients with complex IT systems, we find the auditor is unable to, on average, fully address all the audit risks stemming from IT complexity, even after controlling for the audit risks identified. We find ways to improve audit quality related to IT. Specifically, altering the amount of IT audit effort in the early phase of the audit and staffing more experienced IT audit managers can address some of these risks. Finally, we find staffing experienced IT audit managers has benefits beyond audit quality, as they are also associated with better reliability of the client’s IT systems. Overall, this study quantifies the risk of IT complexity on audits and underscores the importance of audit planning and staffing in addressing these risks.

Keywords: Information Systems, IT Audit, Financial Reporting, Assurance, Reliability, IT Complexity

JEL Classification: M 49, M41, M42,

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Preeti and Ramadas, Vikram and Sigler, Jake, Putting the IT in AudIT Risk: IT Complexity and IT Auditor Mitigation (December 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4012072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4012072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , G Sadka
Why do auditors fail to report material weaknesses in internal controls? Evidence from the PCAOB data. Working paper Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,881
RANK
97,514
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies