Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why it Matters: The Key Role of the Audit Committee in Expanded Audit Reporting Quality

61 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2022 Last revised: 17 Aug 2023

Linette M. Rousseau

University of Houston, Bauer College of Business

Date Written: February 8, 2021

Abstract

Regulators adopted expanded audit reporting standards in response to investors’ calls for greater transparency about the most important matters the auditor discussed with those charged with governance. However, researchers and regulators know very little about whether and how governance actors influence expanded audit reporting quality. This study investigates how the audit committee’s (AC’s) cognitive diversity, demographic diversity, and power affect key audit matter (KAM) quality. KAM quality refers to the transparency of the KAM report (number, length, readability, and tonal bias), and the tailoring of KAMs to specific engagement-years (textual and topical deviations from prior year KAMs and those of industry-year peers). I find that AC cognitive diversity in expertise, knowledge, and abilities is positively associated with KAM quality and that this relation is stronger in financially distressed firms and firms with weaker information environments. I find limited evidence of associations between demographic diversity and KAM quality, providing evidence that professional rather than personal backgrounds shape the AC’s KAM oversight approach. I find that AC power is negatively associated with KAM quality, consistent with distraction and complacency effects among busier board members with long tenures. This study informs researchers, regulators, and practitioners about ongoing efforts to improve transparency at the intersection of audit assurance and corporate governance.

Keywords: Key audit matters, critical audit matters, expanded audit report, audit committee, corporate governance, textual analysis, auditor disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Rousseau, Linette, Why it Matters: The Key Role of the Audit Committee in Expanded Audit Reporting Quality (February 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4013041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
D M Amodio , P G Devine
Stereotyping and evaluation in implicit race bias: Evidence for independent constructs and unique effects on behavior
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 91 , issue 4 , p. 652 - 661 Posted: 2006
M Ashraf , P N Michas , D Russomanno
The impact of audit committee information technology expertise on the reliability and timeliness of financial reporting
Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 56 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,493
RANK
133,571
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies