Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The consequences of reputation-damaging events for Big Four auditors: Evidence from 110 cases with media coverage between 2007 and 2019

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming


Posted: 28 Jan 2022 Last revised: 16 May 2025

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Dechun Wang

Texas A&M University

Nina Xu

University of Connecticut

Date Written: January 10, 2025

Abstract

We make a collective assessment of the consequences of 110 auditor reputation-damaging events with media coverage (“negative events”) from 2007 to 2019 for the U.S. Big Four. First, we fail to find systematic evidence that investors react negatively to negative events. Second, while auditors experience statistically significant client loss after negative events, the effects are short-lived and economically negligible. Furthermore, we find statistically greater effects in situations where theory suggests economic forces could magnify reputation effects (i.e., higher market competition, more replacement auditors, lower client switching costs, and higher audit office reputational capital). However, the economic impact remains small in all cross sections. Overall, our results suggest that negative events with media coverage have only a very marginal impact on investors’ perceptions of Big Four firms’ audit quality and the ability of these firms to attract and retain clients.

Keywords: Big 4 auditor; auditor reputation; stock price reaction; auditor market share

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Wang, Dechun and Xu, Nina,
The consequences of reputation-damaging events for Big Four auditors: Evidence from 110 cases with media coverage between 2007 and 2019
(January 10, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4013745
 Not Available for Download
59 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Is audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG
Steal the Exam" scandal. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organization and Society , volume 98 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2022
N R Berglund
Do client bankruptcies preceded by clean audit opinions damage auditor reputation?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1951 Posted: 2020
S B Bonsall , J R Green , K A Muller
Are credit ratings more rigorous for widely covered firms?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 61 - 94 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,427
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies