Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Auditor Oversight and Adjustment Speed of Capital Structure: Evidence from the PCAOB International Inspection Program

Posted: 31 Jan 2022

Ha Thanh Nguyen

La Trobe University - La Trobe Business School

Darren Henry

La Trobe University - Department of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Balachandran Muniandy

La Trobe University - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the public auditor oversight by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) on non-US firms’ adjustment speed of capital structure. Using a difference-in-difference research design to analyse a sample of 104,880 firm-year observations in 32 non-US countries from 2002 to 2018, we find that non-US clients of PCAOB-inspected foreign auditors increase their adjustment speed of capital structure after their foreign auditors undergo the initial PCAOB inspections. Our results also suggest that the benefits of PCAOB oversight on management capital structure decisions are concentrated for non-US firms located in countries without a strict local auditor oversight system.

Keywords: Public Auditor Oversight; PCAOB International Inspection; Speed of Adjustment; Capital Structure

JEL Classification: M41; G32

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Ha Thanh and Henry, Darren and Muniandy, Balachandran, Public Auditor Oversight and Adjustment Speed of Capital Structure: Evidence from the PCAOB International Inspection Program (January 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies