Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dark Triad Personality Traits and Auditor Independence – A Systematic Literature Review

42 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022

Julia K. M. Schlueter

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this systematic literature review is to shed light on potential
impairments to auditor independence due to the Dark Triad personality traits—
Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy.

Design/methodology/approach: We synthesize the literature on Dark Triad personality traits
based on a sample of 89 articles. As a framework, we adapt the three core attributes of auditor
independence based on the definition of the IESBA Code of Ethics, i.e., objectivity, integrity,
and professional skepticism.

Findings: We propose a deeper analysis of “personality threats” to auditor independence posed
by the Dark Triad personality traits. For instance, recent research indicates that impairments to
auditor independence could arise from client advocacy (e.g., usage and acceptance of discretion
to serve social interests), image protection (e.g., acceptance or relativization of unethical
behavior), provision of non-audit services (e.g., prioritization of promoting non-audit services),
or an organization’s Dark Triad personality traits (e.g., relation to high employee turnover or a
certain auditor type).

Originality: To date, there has been very little recognition of the possible impairment of auditor
independence caused by the Dark Triad personality traits. This area of research offers
indications for evidence-based policy-making: Policies and regulations that embrace an
auditor’s personal predisposition are able to anticipate unintended individual-related
consequences with regard to design and implementation of policies and regulations (e.g.,
control system designs and ethical standards).

Keywords: auditor independence, Dark Triad personality traits, integrity, Machiavellianism, narcissism, objectivity, professional skepticism, psychopathy

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Schlueter, Julia K. M. and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Dark Triad Personality Traits and Auditor Independence – A Systematic Literature Review (January 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
153 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The impact of the CEO's personal narcissism on non-GAAP earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
B R Agle , N J Nagarajan , J A Sonnenfeld , D Srinivasan
Does CEO charisma matter? An empirical analysis of the relationships among organizational performance, environmental uncertainty, and top management team perceptions of CEO charisma Posted: 2006
, p. 161 - 174
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
209,542
153 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies