Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Editorial by the Editor-in-Chief: The Appeal Process Over Editorial Decisions

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2019

International Journal of Auditing, 23(2), 163-164. doi:10.1111/ijau.12159, 2019

Posted: 25 Jan 2022

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The International Journal of Auditing has recently made a decision on an appeal by a group of authors against an editorial decision. The appeal confirms the editorial decision to reject the paper concerned.

Appeals are rare and unusual, as editorial decisions are generally seen as final. In this case, because the authors raised specific issues, and because I was interested in exploring the process of addressing an appeal, we gave consideration to the appeal. I am publishing the outcome of the appeal in this editorial, with the details of the article under consideration omitted, because it may be useful to other authors and potential authors.

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David, Editorial by the Editor-in-Chief: The Appeal Process Over Editorial Decisions (2019). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2019, International Journal of Auditing, 23(2), 163-164. doi:10.1111/ijau.12159, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016831
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies