Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partner Industry Specialization and Audit Pricing in the United Kingdom

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 35, 57-70. doi:10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2019.05.005

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 25 Jan 2022

Khairul Mohd Kharuddin

Loughborough University - Loughborough Business School

Ilias G. Basioudis

Aston University - Aston Business School

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of audit partner industry specialization on audit pricing in the UK market. The mandatory disclosure of the name of the engagement partner in the auditor reports of UK public listed companies took effect from April 2008. Given that the identity of the audit partner is now observable to users of financial statements, it can be argued that there may be an incentive for partner-level differentiation in auditing products, and hence, audit quality. This research examines whether auditor industry expertise in the UK is driven by firm, office, or partner level expertise. The fee premium observed in the study is a joint product of firm and partner level of industry expertise with the highest premium occurring when the client is also audited by an industry leading partner. This finding lends support to the argument that industry expertise is uniquely attributable to the individual audit partner’s human capital in terms of their knowledge and experience from leading audit engagements in a particular industry. It also provides evidence that some fee premiums earned by audit firms and documented in prior literature are most probably the product of the individual audit partner’s expertise. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2019.05.005

Keywords: Audit partner, Audit pricing, Audit fee premium, Industry specialization, United Kingdom

Suggested Citation:

Mohd Kharuddin, Khairul and Basioudis, Ilias G. and Hay, David, Partner Industry Specialization and Audit Pricing in the United Kingdom (2019). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 35, 57-70. doi:10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2019.05.005, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016067
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies