Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Responses to Regulatory Risk: Evidence from SEC Investigations

Posted: 31 Jan 2022 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Nina Xu

University of Connecticut

Wei Zhang

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: December 06, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether auditors respond to ongoing SEC investigations, the majority of which do not reveal severe audit failures or lead to regulatory enforcement actions. We find that auditors are more likely to resign from clients under investigation, increase audit fees and audit effort, and issue more conservative opinions, suggesting that auditors proactively manage increased regulatory risk. We observe auditors’ responses in the first year immediately following the initiation of an investigation. We also find that small auditors take more aggressive measures to manage risk by resigning from investigated clients and increasing audit fees. In contrast, large auditors are more likely to respond to regulatory risk by increasing audit effort and issuing more conservative opinions. Additionally, our results are more pronounced for companies with low ex-ante audit quality. Overall, our findings suggest that auditors incorporate regulatory risk in their risk management strategies even before the risk materializes.

Keywords: Regulatory Risk, SEC Investigation, Audit Quality, Audit Market

JEL Classification: D80; M40; M42

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Nina and Zhang, Wei, Auditor Responses to Regulatory Risk: Evidence from SEC Investigations (December 06, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4018015
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
972
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies