Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and the Cost of Debt: The Role of Auditor Expertise

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Haiping Wang

York University

Yaqi Shi

Western University - Ivey Business School

Date Written: February 4, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the association between fair value accounting and the cost of debt, proxied by bond yield spread. After controlling for potentially confounding factors, such as a firm’s credit rating and other underlying risks, we find that the application of fair value accounting is generally associated with a higher bond yield spread, primarily driven by Level 3 estimates. These results support the argument that fair value accounting undermines the reliability of financial statements. In addition, we explore the moderating role of auditor industry expertise at both the national and the city levels. Our results show that national-level auditor industry expertise is associated with lower bond yield spreads for Level 1 and Level 3 fair value inputs, whereas the impact of city-level auditor industry expertise on bondholders is mainly on Level 3 fair value inputs. Furthermore, we explore the effect of auditor expertise on task-specific fair value and find that city-level auditor expertise lowers bond yield spread for firms that use Level 3 fair value inputs. These results hold after controlling for the exogenous shock, i.e., Auditing Standard Change in Accounting Estimates (Auditing Standard 2501, PCAOB 2017).

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, The Cost of Debt, Bond Yield Spread, Auditor Industry Expertise, Auditor Fair Value Expertise

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Magnan, Michel and Wang, Haiping and Shi, Yaqi, Fair Value Accounting and the Cost of Debt: The Role of Auditor Expertise (February 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026226
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies