Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Firms' Employee Satisfaction and Audit Fees

Xu, H, Dao, M, and Sun, H Accounting Firms' Employee Satisfaction and Audit Fees Accounting and Business Research 2022

Posted: 30 Mar 2022

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Hua Sun

Shandong University

Date Written: February 5, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether audit fees are associated with job satisfaction among accounting firms’ employees. We use novel data obtained from social media site Glassdoor.com and find negative associations between audit fees and accounting firms’ job satisfaction. Our results are robust to alternative measures of employee satisfaction and correct for potential endogeneity problems using 2SLS regression models with instrumental variables (IVs), audit office fixed effects, and changes analysis. Our additional analysis reveals that compared to former employees’ ratings, current employees’ ratings play a more important role in determining the pricing of audit services. Moreover, audit fees are higher for firms audited by accounting firms with greater employee satisfaction and providing more nonaudit services. We further find that employee satisfaction at any audit level is associated with lower audit fees. Our study extends the extant literature on employee satisfaction and provides useful information for accounting firms regarding the importance of employee satisfaction to audit fees.

Keywords: employee satisfaction; audit fees; employees’ feelings; employees’ ratings; Glassdoor

JEL Classification: M12; M41; M42; M51.

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Hongkang and Dao, Mai and Sun, Hua, Accounting Firms' Employee Satisfaction and Audit Fees (February 5, 2022). Xu, H, Dao, M, and Sun, H Accounting Firms' Employee Satisfaction and Audit Fees Accounting and Business Research 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027503
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies