Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Assurance in Capital Markets: Reclaiming the Economic Imperative of the Auditing Profession

Accounting Horizons, 35(1), 133-151. https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-19-182

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Efficient capital markets rely on a continuous supply of reliable, timely, and audited information. The economic value of an audit derives from the reduction in risk of erroneous or manipulated information. Traditionally, the auditing has focused on annual financial reports. Given the speed of information creation and dissemination, the role of auditors may need to adapt. There are three areas in which auditors might help improve information quality: (1) non-GAAP earnings; (2) ESG reporting; and (3) cybersecurity risks disclosures. To provide assurance over these types of information, audit firms need to identify the appropriate subject matter for assurance, obtain expertise to provide assurance, develop a verification process, and commit to a system of organizational support. Multidisciplinary practices have the potential to provide many types of expanded assurance. However, success is not inevitable, and market, social, and regulatory forces will have much to say about the emergence of new assurance initiatives. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-19-182

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert, The Future of Assurance in Capital Markets: Reclaiming the Economic Imperative of the Auditing Profession (2021). Accounting Horizons, 35(1), 133-151. https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-19-182, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029192
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies