Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Audit Team Industry and Client-Specific Experience Impact Audit Effort and Audit Fees?

International Journal of Auditing, 25(1), 249-268. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijau.12219

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Christine Contessotto

Deakin University - Faculty of Business and Law

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Prior research into the effect of different types of experience on audit fees and audit effort has been primarily conducted at the individual, office or firm level but rarely at the team level. An important motivation for team level research is that within team variation could influence the conduct, quality and pricing of an audit. Audit team industry specialization and client-specific experience have been associated with higher audit quality. We extend this research by investigating the effect of audit team industry experience and client-specific experience on audit production hours (effort) and fees. Using proprietary team-level data provided by two Australian mid-tier firms, we find that audit team client-specific experience is associated with higher effort and fees. Although team-level industry experience is not associated with effort or fees, it is associated with the use of lower ranked auditors. Our results suggest that audit teams with industry experience enjoy cost savings, while audit teams with client-specific experience incur additional effort, perhaps due to the provision of value-added services. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1111/ijau.12219

Keywords: audit effort, audit fees, audit teams, client-specific experience, industry experience

Suggested Citation:

Contessotto, Christine and Knechel, Warren Robert and Moroney, Robyn, How Do Audit Team Industry and Client-Specific Experience Impact Audit Effort and Audit Fees? (2021). International Journal of Auditing, 25(1), 249-268. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijau.12219, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029191
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies