Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supplemental Datasets for Examination of the Pcaob's Relationship with the Audit Profession in the United States

Data in Brief, 31, 105743. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2020.105743

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

These datasets have been co-submitted to this journal with the research article “A multi-method analysis of the PCAOB's relationship with the audit profession” [1]. The purpose of these datasets is to assist readers of the research article in obtaining further details on two analyses performed therein: a deviant case analysis of the interview data (enclosed here as Dataset 1) and content analysis of disagreement-report pairs (enclosed here as Dataset 2). These datasets could also inform future research into audit regulation by serving as a starting point in developing research ideas or as a context to settings chosen by the researchers for examination. We developed Dataset 1 by examining interviews of eight PCAOB inspectors and six audit partners who were involved in early interactions between the largest firms and the PCAOB for elements of the data that are inconsistent with the explanations and results in the research article. We developed Dataset 2 by identifying audit firm response letters during the period of 2004-2012 where there are one or more instances of explicit disagreement with the PCAOB's inspection results within the response letter. We identified 15 such audit firm response letters and paired them with the subsequent inspection report based on an inspection that started after the audit firm response letter date. We then examined the content of disagreements and the subsequent deficiencies and highlighted issues in these subsequent reports that appear like disagreements. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2020.105743



Keywords: PCAOB, Audit Regulation, Auditor Inspections, Responsive Regulation Theory

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Knechel, Warren Robert and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Maksymov, Eldar M., Supplemental Datasets for Examination of the Pcaob's Relationship with the Audit Profession in the United States (2020). Data in Brief, 31, 105743. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2020.105743, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029190
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies