Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Audit Firms' Knowledge Sharing on Audit Quality and Efficiency

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 39(2), 51-79. https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52597

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Rong-Ruey Duh

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Ching-Chieh Lin

National Pingtung University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of knowledge sharing in audit firms on audit quality and efficiency. We analyze data from a survey of audit professionals from 22 audit firms in Taiwan matched to publicly available data on individual audits conducted by those firms. The results indicate that knowledge sharing within an audit firm is positively associated with audit quality as manifested in lower absolute discretionary accruals and the issuance of more unfavorable audit opinions. We also find that knowledge sharing within audit firms is associated with higher audit efficiency as represented by shorter audit lags. More importantly, we find that both higher audit quality and audit efficiency are simultaneously associated with higher levels of knowledge sharing, suggesting that effective knowledge sharing may help to improve both audit quality and audit efficiency. Given the regulatory changes to enhance both audit quality and audit timeliness, these findings have implications for audit firms. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52597

Suggested Citation:

Duh, Rong-Ruey and Knechel, Warren Robert and Lin, Ching-Chieh, The Effects of Audit Firms' Knowledge Sharing on Audit Quality and Efficiency (2020). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 39(2), 51-79. https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52597, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029188
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies