Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Audit Manager and Auditor-in-Charge Experience, Effort, and Risk Responsiveness

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 38(3), 121-147. https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52308

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Christine Contessotto

Deakin University - Faculty of Business and Law

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Robyn Moroney

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Audit quality is dependent on the experience and effort of the audit team to identify and respond to client risks (risk responsiveness). Central to each team are the core role holders who plan and execute the audit. While many studies treat the partner as the primary core role holder, the manager and auditor-in-charge (AIC) are also important. Using data for engagements from two midtier firms, we analyze the association between the experience and relative effort of the manager and AIC and risk responsiveness. We find a manager's client-specific experience is associated with risk responsiveness for non-listed clients but find no evidence that the general or industry experience of a manager, or the experience of the AIC, is associated with risk responsiveness. The client-specific experience and relative effort of the partner is associated with risk responsiveness. These results suggests that managers can provide an important, albeit limited, contribution to the audit. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52308

Suggested Citation:

Contessotto, Christine and Knechel, Warren Robert and Moroney, Robyn, The Association between Audit Manager and Auditor-in-Charge Experience, Effort, and Risk Responsiveness (2019). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 38(3), 121-147. https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52308, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029187
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies