Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Media Exposure Affect Financial Reporting Quality Through Auditors?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 36(4), 750-775. https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X20936083

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 10 Feb 2022

Steven F. Cahan

University of Auckland Business School

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the media has an indirect corporate governance effect on financial reporting quality (FRQ) that operates through auditors. This occurs because greater media coverage can magnify an auditor’s business risk by exposing the auditor to more potential litigation and reputation damage if an audit failure occurs. We use a path analysis to examine the direct and indirect channels of media corporate governance. We find a positive association between media coverage and FRQ that is mediated by audit fees, and the results are stronger for firms with greater incentives to engage in earnings manipulation. In contrast, we find no evidence that the media has a direct corporate governance effect on FRQ. Our results show how the media’s corporate governance reach can be extended by auditors who care about how media coverage impacts their risk level. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X20936083

Keywords: media, auditor, business risk, financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

Cahan, Steven F. and Chen, Chen and Wang, Rencheng, Does Media Exposure Affect Financial Reporting Quality Through Auditors? (2021). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 36(4), 750-775. https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X20936083, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4030193
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies