Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Data Analytics, Machine Learning, and Full Population Testing
KeAi

16 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2022 Publication Status: Published

Feiqi Huang

Pace University

Won Gyun No

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Zhaokai Yan

Marist College

Abstract

Emerging technologies like data analytics and machine learning are already profoundly impacting the accounting profession. We focus on one important audit procedure – audit sampling. As audit sampling only provides a small snapshot of the entire population, it starts to lose some of its meaning in this big data era. One feasible solution is the usage of audit data analytics and machine learning to enable an analysis of the entire population rather than a sample of the transactions. This paper presents a framework for applying audit data analytics and machine learning to full population testing and discusses related challenges.

Keywords: audit data analytics, full population testing, machine learning

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Feiqi and No, Won Gyun and Vasarhelyi, Miklos and Yan, Zhaokai, Audit Data Analytics, Machine Learning, and Full Population Testing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4033165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4033165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,800
PlumX Metrics
KeAi First Look
All Journals (2567)
Advanced Agrochem (0)
Advanced Powder Materials (21)
Advances in Biomarker Sciences and Technology (3)
Advances in Climate Change Research (85)
AI Open (47)
Animal Nutrition (196)
Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture (51)
Artificial Intelligence in Geosciences (56)
Asian Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology (0)
Bioactive Materials (185)
Biotechnology Notes (3)
Carbon Resources Conversion (41)
China Economic Quarterly International (30)
Clinical eHealth (25)
Cognitive Robotics (41)
Cyber Security and Applications (50)
Earthquake Science (90)
Emerging Contaminants (78)
Energetic Materials Frontiers (64)
Energy and Built Environment (77)
Engineered Regeneration (11)
Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology (62)
Environmental Functional Materials (5)
FirePhysChem (49)
Global Transitions (20)
Global Transitions Proceedings (0)
Grain & Oil Science and Technology (31)
Green Chemical Engineering (0)
Green Energy & Environment (0)
Green Synthesis and Catalysis (99)
HydroResearch (45)
Infectious Disease Modelling (63)
International Journal of Cognitive Computing in Engineering (33)
International Journal of Geoheritage & Parks (77)
International Journal of Innovation Studies (2)
International Journal of Intelligent Networks (60)
International Journal of Lightweight Materials and Manufacture (55)
Internet of Things and Cyber-Physical Systems (19)
Journal of Biosafety and Biosecurity (11)
Journal of Digital Economy (53)
Journal of Economy and Technology (7)
Journal of Management Science & Engineering (2)
Journal of Pipeline Science and Engineering (80)
Laparoscopic, Endoscopic and Robotic Surgery (25)
Liver Research (12)
Materials Science for Energy Technologies (21)
Natural Hazards Research (71)
Non-coding RNA Research (27)
Reproduction and Breeding (38)
Resources Chemicals and Materials (4)
Sensors International (20)
Smart Materials in Manufacturing (15)
Smart Materials in Medicine (13)
Supramolecular Materials (12)
Sustainable Operations and Computers (21)
Synthetic and Systems Biotechnology (95)
The Journal of Finance & Data Science (44)
Translational Medicine of Aging (6)
Translational Metabolic Syndrome Research (0)
Urine (2)
Virtual Reality & Intelligent Hardware (32)
Water Cycle (57)
Water-Energy Nexus (20)
Watershed Ecology and the Environment (45)
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies