Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Service Quality, Price, and Firm Image on Customer Satisfaction in Philippine Accounting Firms

Brucal, S., Corpuz, C., Abeysekera, I. & David, R. 2022. Role of service quality, price, and firm image on customer satisfaction in Philippine Accounting Firms. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, Vol. 15, No.2, Article 75. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm15020075.

16 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022

Sandra Brucal

Holy Angel University

Cris Corpuz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Raul David

Charles Darwin University

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This study examines the service quality of accounting firms in Pampanga, Philippines, and their customers’ satisfaction. Using the SERVQUAL model, the study explores the effect of service quality, price, and firm image on client satisfaction of accounting firms. The study conducted a field survey questionnaire using convenience sampling and collected 59 client-firm responses. The findings suggest that accounting firm clients are satisfied with the services they receive from their respective providers. Regression analysis indicates that service quality significantly affects only customer satisfaction. Price has a significant effect on service quality. The duration a client stays with the firm and services provided to the client also significantly impact controlling service quality. Additional testing shows that service quality mediates the influence of service price on customer satisfaction. The findings guide accounting firms to improve their client service quality.

Keywords: accounting firms, customer satisfaction, firm image, professional services, SERVQUAL

JEL Classification: M41,M49

Suggested Citation:

Brucal, Sandra and Corpuz, Cris and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and David, Raul, Role of Service Quality, Price, and Firm Image on Customer Satisfaction in Philippine Accounting Firms (2022). Brucal, S., Corpuz, C., Abeysekera, I. & David, R. 2022. Role of service quality, price, and firm image on customer satisfaction in Philippine Accounting Firms. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, Vol. 15, No.2, Article 75. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm15020075., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4034235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
202,849
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies