Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit 4.0-Based ESG Assurance: An Example of Using Satellite Images on GHG Emissions

Forthcoming in International Journal of Accounting Information Systems

41 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2022 Last revised: 22 Dec 2022

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Jun Dai

Michigan Technological University

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: January 29, 2022

Abstract

As Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) information has become an essential resource for investors, regulators have attempted to assure its quality. While more companies offer ESG disclosure, it is usually not fully substantiated with supporting information. Assurance is needed to verify that ESG reports are free of substantive errors. However, traditional financial audit approaches are less effective in providing ESG assurance due to the difference in the nature of evidence, difficulty in measuring and verifying ESG measures, and ever-changing ESG performance. To increase the effectiveness of ESG audit approaches, this study proposes Audit 4.0-based ESG assurance, which uses Big Data and emerging technologies of Audit 4.0 to capture evidence from the physical world and provide accurate assurance on ESG reports in a timely manner. We further perform a case study as a proof of concept of the proposed approach, which explores the integration of satellite-based methane estimation as ESG audit evidence. The use of satellite images provides opportunities for regulators and companies to monitor and assure ESG reports in a continuous manner.

Keywords: ESG Assurance, ESG Audit, Continuous Assurance, Audit 4.0, Big Data, Greenhouse Gas (GHG)

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yu and Dai, Jun and Vasarhelyi, Miklos, Audit 4.0-Based ESG Assurance: An Example of Using Satellite Images on GHG Emissions (January 29, 2022). Forthcoming in International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4040372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
992
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,920
RANK
52,981
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies