Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory joint audits in France and Denmark: A comparative case study

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Fatma Jemaa

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Kim Klarskov Jeppesen

Copenhagen Business School

Nadia Mhirsi

University of Burgundy - Institute of Business Administration Dijon (IAE) - CREGO (EA 7317)

Date Written: February 22, 2022

Abstract

Recent financial scandals in the UK and Netherlands have brought to the forefront the issue of mandatory joint audits as a means to mitigate audit market concentration. This study draws on two longitudinal case studies of the French and Danish joint audit models to understand and compare how mandatory joint audits emerged and evolved. In both settings, after a series of financial scandals, joint audits appeared in the 1930s to increase auditors’ competence and independence. A few decades later, the various actors seemed to forget these original considerations and joint audits appeared to be taken for granted. Soon though, the newly arrived Big audit networks attempted to circumvent the rule, entering into conflict with non-Big auditors who saw mandatory joint audits as the only way to keep conducting large audits. In the French setting, the main association of auditors successively adopted regulatory measures that prevented the model’s material and symbolic erosion observed in the Danish setting, generating what we call regulatory layering. In Denmark, once the model eroded, Big undertook relational work to provoke its disruption. These findings unveil the conditions under which mandatory joint audits can help reduce audit market concentration, providing timely information for regulators engaged in such discussions.



Keywords: mandatory joint audit, institutional work, regulatory layering, erosion

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Jemaa, Fatma and Jeppesen, Kim Klarskov and Mhirsi, Nadia, Mandatory joint audits in France and Denmark: A comparative case study (February 22, 2022). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
165,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies