Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Qualitative Factors and Auditors’ Personal Characteristics on Materiality Judgments

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 37 No. 3, 2022, pp. 305-335 © Emerald Publishing Limited 0268-6902 DOI 10.1108/MAJ-08-2019-2379

Posted: 24 Jun 2022

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Samar Salama

Canadian International College (CIC)

Date Written: February 24, 2022

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of qualitative materiality factors on auditors’ assessment of materiality and the determination of the type of the auditors’ reports. This paper also analyzes whether differences in personal characteristics of auditors can influence their use of qualitative materiality factors in assessing material misstatements.

Design/methodology/approach – A questionnaire and experimental case studies were undertaken to determine whether differences in personal characteristics of auditors can influence their degree of reliance on qualitative factors in assessing the materiality of detected misstatements. Descriptive and statistical tests were used to analyze the data collected.

Findings – The results of this paper show that qualitative materiality factors strongly influence the
auditor’s materiality judgments. However, no significant differences were found regarding the effects of auditors’ personal characteristics on the degree to which they rely on the qualitative factors in their materiality judgments. Also, in certain situations, auditors considered factors other than the income for assessing certain misstatements as material and consequently modified their audit reports.

Originality/value – This paper examines the influence of qualitative factors on auditors’ materiality
judgments and develops a list of qualitative factors to be considered by auditors when assessing materiality. It also concludes that the nature of misstatement is the least important qualitative factor considered by auditors when assessing materiality of detected misstatements and that the existence of more explicit or standardized qualitative materiality guidelines would lead to a more uniform judgment among auditors.

Keywords: Audit report, Auditing, Qualitative factors, Earnings management, Materiality, Egypt.

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A. and Salama, Samar, Effects of Qualitative Factors and Auditors’ Personal Characteristics on Materiality Judgments (February 24, 2022). Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 37 No. 3, 2022, pp. 305-335 © Emerald Publishing Limited 0268-6902 DOI 10.1108/MAJ-08-2019-2379, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4043086
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies