Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Socializing Remote Newcomers in Public Accounting: Challenges and Best Practices from the Perspective of Experienced Big 4 Professionals

ACCOUNTING HORIZONS Vol. 38, No. 1 March 2024 pp. 1–17

52 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2022 Last revised: 22 Jun 2023

Charles D. Bailey

James Madison University

Derek W. Dalton

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business

Nancy L. Harp

Clemson University

Thomas J. Phillips, Jr.

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 23, 2023

Abstract

Accounting firms increasingly provide remote or hybrid work options to attract qualified professionals, but they must also effectively socialize new employees to develop and retain them. This study explores the effect of remote work on newcomer socialization. Rather than surveying remote newcomers who have less understanding of what “successful” socialization means, we ask 122 experienced Big 4 professionals about the impact of remote work during the COVID-19 pandemic on socialization. Respondents report that every aspect of socialization is impacted by remote work. Although participants perceive that newcomers are largely able to learn technical skills remotely, they are less able to use informal learning and observation to learn about firm expectations (e.g., client interactions). Participants believe remote newcomers are less able to form bonds with coworkers and clients and are less committed to their firm. Best practices for remote socialization are discussed (e.g., virtual audit rooms) to assist accounting firms.

Keywords: organizational socialization, remote work, COVID-19 pandemic, public accounting

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Charles D. and Dalton, Derek W. and Harp, Nancy and Phillips, Jr., Thomas J., Socializing Remote Newcomers in Public Accounting: Challenges and Best Practices from the Perspective of Experienced Big 4 Professionals (January 23, 2023). ACCOUNTING HORIZONS Vol. 38, No. 1 March 2024 pp. 1–17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4050702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4050702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
2019 trends in the supply of accounting graduates and the demand for accounting recruits
AICPA Posted: 2019-12-14
AICPA. 2021. PCPS CPA firm top issues survey Posted: 2021-12-14
J Alderman
How do remote audits impact auditor liability exposure? Exploring jurors' perceptions of interview evidence collected during the COVID-19 pandemic Posted: 2022
E Almer , S Kaplan
The effects of flexible work arrangements on stressors, burnout, and behavioral job outcomes in public accounting
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,867
RANK
130,957
3 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies