Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Quality on Organization Capital

38 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022

Andreas G. Georgantopoulos

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens; Panteion University of Athens - Panteion University of Political and Social Sciences

Dimitrios Konstantios

ALBA Graduate Business School

Vasilios-Christos Naoum

University of Piraeus

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

The current study examines how audit quality affects firms’ intangible investments. Employing a sample of 33,518 firm-year observations of US-listed firms for the period 1999-2017, our empirical findings suggest that firms’ organization capital which is considered as the primary variable of a firm’s intensity of intangible investments, is associated with high audit quality measured by audit firm size, auditor tenure and audit fees. Sensitivity tests, alternative measures of organization capital, subsample analyses and tests for endogeneity issues indicate that the effect of audit quality on organization capital intensity remains valid. Our findings provide new insights in the related literature by showing that audit quality adds to the development of intangible investments, contributing to firms’ long-term performance horizon.

Keywords: Audit quality, Organization Capital, Audit Fees, Audit Tenure.

JEL Classification: E22; G30; G32; G10; G12; G14; G30

Suggested Citation:

Georgantopoulos, Andreas G. and Konstantios, Dimitrios and Naoum, Vasilios-Christos and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., The Effect of Audit Quality on Organization Capital (February 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4052088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Parker Abbott , S Peters , G Raghunandan , K
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
V Acharya , K Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
N Attig , S Cleary , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Institutional Investment Horizons and the Cost of Equity Capital
Financial Management , volume 42 , p. 441 - 477 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
401,129
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies