Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shariah Auditing: Analyzing the past to prepare for the future

Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JIABR-11-2021-0291

27 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

DF Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Hamzeh Al Amosh

Ministry of Education and Higher Education Qatar

Ayman Hassan Bazhai

Taif University

Ali Kabara

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 10, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This study presents a detailed investigation of Shariah audit research based on a
systematic literature review.
Methodology Fifty-three studies were collected from the Scopus and Web of Science databases
following a systematic methodology. These studies were analysed and evaluated based on the
theoretical perspective, geographical distribution, research settings, and themes background.
Finding: The findings indicate an increase in the literature on Shariah auditing over time,
especially in the Malaysian context, with a dearth of research in other contexts and institutions
(Takaful). It has been also revealed that the existing literature is still unclear about the
effectiveness and consequences of effective Shariah auditing, pointing the need for more work
on these areas. We outline opportunities for future Shariah auditing research.
Originality: The synthesized findings are helpful for policymakers and managers to understand
better how research in shariah auditing is developing and how to translate research findings into
practice. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first research to comprehensively synthesize the
literature on this topic and identify the potential opportunities for future research directions.

Keywords: Shariah Audit, Corporate Governance, Shariah Supervisory Board, Risk Management, Islamic Financial Institutions.

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Abdullah, Dewi Fariha and Al Amosh, Hamzeh and Bazhai, Ayman Hassan and Kabara, Ali, Shariah Auditing: Analyzing the past to prepare for the future (March 10, 2022). Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JIABR-11-2021-0291, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4054957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Ab Ghani , N L Abdul Rahman , A R
An Analysis of Shari'ah Audit Practices in Islamic Banks in Malaysia
Jurnal Pengurusan , volume 43 , p. 107 - 118 Posted: 2015
Ab Ghani , N L Ariffin , N M Rahman , A R A
The Measurement of Effective Internal Shariah audit Function In Islamic Financial Institutions
International Journal of Economics , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 141 - 165 Posted: 2019
N Abd Rahman , N Mastuki , M R Osman , N Kasim
Islamic legal maxim for Shari'ah audit in Islamic bank
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 457 - 471 Posted: 2020
S Ahmad
Practice of Shariah audit in Islamic banking in Pakistan
Journal of Islamic Economics , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 102 - 127 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
RANK
97,514
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies