Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fool Me Once, Shame on You; Fool Me Twice, Shame on Me: The Long-Term Impact of Arthur Andersen’s Demise on Partners’ Audit Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Mar 2022 Last revised: 19 Jul 2022

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Mi Zhou

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 24, 2022

Abstract

Although recent evidence suggests that individual audit partners explain a substantial portion of the variation in audit quality proxies, much less is known about what determines an audit partner’s quality. Psychology and behavioral economics theories hold that an individual’s experiences can have enduring impacts on subsequent behavior. We examine whether auditors’ direct exposure to Arthur Andersen’s collapse has a long-term impact on the quality of their audits. Our evidence implies that audit partners who directly experienced Andersen’s demise impose stricter monitoring evident in their clients exhibiting a lower propensity for misstatements and small profits, and paying higher audit fees. Importantly, these findings reconcile with research in finance and economics implying that firsthand experiences matter more to subsequent behavior than general economic conditions or second- or thirdhand experiences. Collectively, the results shed light on one facet of how partners’ audit quality evolves over time. Our findings suggest that major failures associated with the audit firm in which an auditor works can ultimately result in these affected individuals later delivering higher audit quality, which should benefit audit committees in partner selection decisions and audit firms in designing partner assignment policies.

Keywords: audit partner performance, Arthur Andersen, audit quality, personal experience

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Feng and Lisic, Ling Lei and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Seidel, Timothy A. and Zhou, Mi and Zhou, Ying, Fool Me Once, Shame on You; Fool Me Twice, Shame on Me: The Long-Term Impact of Arthur Andersen’s Demise on Partners’ Audit Quality (February 24, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4054039
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
626
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies