Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent oversight of the auditing profession: A review of the literature

International Journal of Auditing

59 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Mohamed Khaled Eldaly

University of Bradford - School of Management

Magdy G. Abdel-Kader

Cairo University - Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper reviews the literature on the independent oversight of auditing from 2003 to 2018 and provides several research opportunities for filling the identified gaps in that literature. Our review classifies the literature into three themes: (1) the development of independent audit oversight; (2) the effects of independent audit oversight; and (3) the interface between the independent audit oversight authorities and the global audit networks. The paper finds different effects of the independent audit oversight. Positively, it enhances the capital markets by adding more credibility to the published information. Auditors become more conservative about accepting or continuing to work with high-risk clients. At the same time, while audit fees have increased as a result of the additional requirements of independent audit regulation, non-audit fees from audit clients have decreased significantly. Negatively, independent oversight has increased audit concentration and resulted in insufficient choice of auditors in most audit markets.

Keywords: Audit oversight, Audit quality, Audit fees, Global audit networks

Suggested Citation:

Elshandidy, Tamer and Eldaly, Mohamed Khaled and Abdel-Kader, Magdy G., Independent oversight of the auditing profession: A review of the literature (February 1, 2021). International Journal of Auditing, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB research: What have we learned?
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
S Abidin , V Beattie , A Goodacre
Audit market structure, fees and choice following the Andersen break-up: Evidence from the U.K
British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2010
A Acito , C Hogan , R Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditorclient relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Accountancy Europe
Member States' implementation of new EU audit rules -state of play as of Posted: 2020-07
Load more
1 Citations
Cristina Florio
A structured literature review of empirical research on mandatory auditor rotation
Florio, Cristina, A Structured Literature Review of Empirical Research on Mandatory Auditor Rotation (May 8, 2024). Forthcoming in the Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 50 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
RANK
481,321
1 Citations
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies