Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Networks and networking as spaces of change: Responding to the Diversity Agenda in the Accounting Profession

HEC Paris Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Mar 2022

Fiona Anderson-Gough

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Carla Edgley

Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University

Keith Robson

HEC Paris

Nina Sharma

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper is positioned within the research problematic of understanding how diversity networking spaces among professional service firms are experienced as giving meaning to the self, as a habituated, socially-productive, ‘networking’ professional. Drawing on insights from the work of Lefebvre, we analyse interview and survey data to explore how diversity networking spaces are perceived, conceived and represented as human-material spatial ensembles for engaging with the diversity imperative. While such spaces are imbued with, and reinforce, a sense of group identity for members, they are strongly professionally-coded rather than places of resistance or activism. Diversity networking spaces appeared fragmented, with an uneven, London-centric geography, operating at the margins of the workplace. The wealth and resource distribution of accounting firms, concentrated particularly within the Big 4 firms, has created a geography of diversity networking spatial practices in their image. The materialisation of successful, sustainable diversity networking spaces appeared to be contingent on a deliverable business plan, where accounting mechanisms play a crucial role in the measurability of impacts and commercial outputs. Ironically, the more successful networks with leadership opportunities that can be leveraged for career progression are highly professionalised, to the extent that they appear more gendered and gendering. We further suggest that there are hierarchies within networks. The socio-material networking spaces that really matter, where power and influence flow within firms at elite levels, remain private and hidden, on a more homogenous, exclusive, invitation-only basis.

Keywords: Diversity networks, Lefebvre - space and spatiality, professional identity

Suggested Citation:

Anderson-Gough, Fiona and Edgley, Carla and Robson, Keith and Sharma, Nina, Networks and networking as spaces of change: Responding to the Diversity Agenda in the Accounting Profession (July 1, 2021). HEC Paris Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056611
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies