Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of a Client's Social Media Disclosure and Audience Engagement on Auditor Judgment

54 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Sanaz Aghazadeh

Louisiana State University

J. Owen Brown

Baylor University

Laura Guichard Latiolais

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - Department of Accounting

Thomas J. Phillips, Jr.

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 9, 2022

Abstract

The rapid rise of social media enables companies to disclose information to the public instantly. Thus, auditors may initially receive client information via a client's social media account instead of through private, client-to-auditor communication. Drawing on Social Penetration Theory, we conduct an experiment to investigate how a client's initial disclosure via social media (versus private disclosure) and audience engagement of the client's posts (e.g., number of "likes," "replies," and "reposts") affects auditors' perception of the auditor-client relationship and their evaluation of the client-provided information. We find that when auditors initially receive client information via social media with high audience engagement, they are less willing to accept the client's preference than when the same information is disclosed privately or publicly with minimal audience engagement. Our findings are consistent with auditors perceiving client disclosure via social media with high audience engagement as a significant violation of their communication expectations such that their relational closeness with the client weakens and causes them to respond critically. We contribute to the literature on the use of social media for corporate disclosure, which has implications for the auditor-client relationship and audit quality.

Keywords: audience engagement, auditor-client relationship, social media, Social Penetration Theory, Twitter, X

Suggested Citation:

Aghazadeh, Sanaz and Brown, Owen and Guichard Latiolais, Laura and Phillips, Jr., Thomas J., The Effects of a Client's Social Media Disclosure and Audience Engagement on Auditor Judgment (May 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4056288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
T Adams , J Krishnan , J Krishnan
Client influence and auditor independence revisited: Evidence from auditor resignations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2021
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang
How does audit firm emphasis on client relationship quality influence auditors' inferences about and responses to potential persuasion in client communications?
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 87 Posted: 2020
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
I Altman , D Taylor
Social Penetration: The Development of Interpersonal Relationships Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,501
RANK
125,413
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies