Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pandemic and Work-Life Balance; An Exploration on How the Employees of Big-4 Accounting Firms Manage Their Work Lives during COVID-19

16 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Eldho Babu

Loyola College, Chennai; Sacred Heart College

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

The COVID-19 outbreak has wreaked havoc on the global economy. It has hit all nations; however, not everybody is equally affected as with all emergencies. Countries with improved infrastructures are adequately suited to cope with such emergencies. COVID-19 has exacerbated a considerable portion of the workforce afraid to travel to work to restrict the virus's spread. As a result, both businesses and employees seek other career opportunities. Due to the epidemic, numerous, if not all, workers were forced to work from home. As an outcome, most administrations have made work from home an intelligent intervention. Thus, this research paper is an analysis of the work-life balance of employees in Big 4 Accounting Firms during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Keywords: COVID-19, havoc, work-life balance, work from home, Big-4 Accounting Firms

Suggested Citation:

Babu, Eldho, Pandemic and Work-Life Balance; An Exploration on How the Employees of Big-4 Accounting Firms Manage Their Work Lives during COVID-19 (March 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
E Keshky , M El Sayed , S S Basyouni , A M Al Sabban , K M Kniffin , J Narayanan , F Anseel , J Antonakis , S P Ashford , A B Bakker
Getting through COVID-19: The pandemic's impact on the psychology of sustainability, quality of life, and the global economy-A systematic review
Frontiers in Psychology , volume 11 Posted: 2020
M V Vugt
COVID-19 and the workplace: Implications, issues, and insights for future research and action
American Psychologist , volume 76 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
N Mantalay , N Chakpitak
Cross-cultural discontinuities within international knowledge work: firm-level evidence from a German software developer in Thailand
Journal of Organizational Culture , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 414 - 432 Posted: 2013
Parth Salunke , Dr Deshpande , Aruna , Ms Joshi
WORK LIFE BALANCE IN PHASE OF PANDEMIC Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,015
RANK
110,759
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies