Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Process Evidence on Engagement Partners’ Audit Quality Management: The Matter is the 'Fit,' not the Person

31 Pages Posted: 9 May 2022

Eriko Kameoka

Tohoku University; Tohoku University - Economics & Management

Date Written: September 21, 2021

Abstract

Recent audit regulations have intensified the focus on engagement partners (EPs), as emerging audit archival studies have reported a significant association between EPs’ individual characteristics and audit quality. Yet, the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. This study synthesized prior research into a framework where EPs manage audit quality through interactions with the client, audit team (AT), and audit firm. Then, to investigate client–partner matching and AT composition, which are the initial processes of EPs’ audit quality management, this study conducted interviews with ten partners of a Japanese Big 4. Contrary to academia’s recent belief, the process evidence suggests EPs are not the dominant determinant of audit quality management. Their behavior is explained by the personal characteristics and environment, which is determined by the audit firm and the surrounding regulations. Although no audit research to date has focused on person–environment fit, it may matter for audit quality.

Keywords: Audit quality management; engagement partner; client-partner matching; audit team composition; preference; person-environment (P-E) fit

Suggested Citation:

Kameoka, Eriko, Process Evidence on Engagement Partners’ Audit Quality Management: The Matter is the 'Fit,' not the Person (September 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4061310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4061310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
Which audit input matters? An analysis of the determinants of audit quality, profitability, and audit fees using PCAOB data Posted: 2018
V Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
Behind the audit report: A descriptive study of discussions and negotiations between auditors and directors
International Journal of Auditing , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 202 Posted: 2000
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The effect of the social mismatch between staff auditors and client management on the collection of audit evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
J Blouin , B M Grein , B R Rountree
An analysis of forced auditor change: The case of former Arthur Andersen clients
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 621 - 650 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
RANK
819,727
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies