Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
capAI - A Procedure for Conducting Conformity Assessment of AI Systems in Line with the EU Artificial Intelligence Act

91 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2022 Last revised: 22 Jul 2022

Luciano Floridi

Yale University - Digital Ethics Center; University of Bologna- Department of Legal Studies

Matthias Holweg

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Mariarosaria Taddeo

University of Oxford - Oxford Internet Institute

Javier Amaya

ESADE Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School; University College Dublin (UCD), College of Business and Law, UCD School of Business, Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business, Students

Jakob Mökander

University of Oxford - Oxford Internet Institute

Yuni Wen

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: March 23, 2022

Abstract

We have developed capAI, a conformity assessment procedure for AI systems, to provide an independent, comparable, quantifiable, and accountable assessment of AI systems that conforms with the proposed AIA regulation. By building on the AIA, capAI provides organisations with practical guidance on how high-level ethics principles can be translated into verifiable criteria that help shape the design, development, deployment and use of ethical AI. The main purpose of capAI is to serve as a governance tool that ensures and demonstrates that the development and operation of an AI system are trustworthy – i.e., legally compliant, ethically sound, and technically robust – and thus conform to the AIA.

Keywords: AI, AI Act, AI legislation, AI Auditing, Conformity Assessment, EU, Trustworthy AI

Suggested Citation:

Floridi, Luciano and Holweg, Matthias and Taddeo, Mariarosaria and Amaya, Javier and Mökander, Jakob and Wen, Yuni, capAI - A Procedure for Conducting Conformity Assessment of AI Systems in Line with the EU Artificial Intelligence Act (March 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4064091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4064091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
L Floridi , J Cowls
A unified framework of five principles for AI in society
Ethics, Governance, and Policies in Artificial Intelligence , p. 5 - 17 Posted: 2021
Mckinsey , Mckinsey
Artificial intelligence in the United Kingdom: prospects and challenges Posted: 2019
M Taddeo , L Floridi
How AI can be a force for good
Science , volume 361 , issue 6404 , p. 751 - 752 Posted: 2018
Government Digital Service (GDS) and the Office for Artificial Intelligence (OAI), A guide to using artificial intelligence in the public sector Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21,871
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54,863
RANK
319
65 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies