Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Reward Versus Penalty Framed Incentives Affect Diagnostic Performance in Auditing?

50 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2022

Bright (Yue) Hong

DePaul University

Timothy W. Shields

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics; Chapman University - Economic Science Institute

Date Written: March 23, 2022

Abstract

Incentives can be framed as rewards or penalties to motivate the same desired behavior. Accuracy and objectivity are desired qualities of auditor judgments and actions. When auditors are incentivized to be accurate and objective, we examine how framing the same incentives as rewards versus penalties affects diagnostic performance that is key to detecting misstatements. We find that incentive framing affects performance objectivity rather than accuracy. Specifically, a reward versus penalty frame increases testing by lowering the subjective testing criterion and by increasing the assessed risk of material misstatement. However, testing increases primarily when a misstatement is absent, causing more false alarms under a reward versus penalty frame with no improvement in misstatement detection. Regulators primarily provide auditors with penalty framed incentives. Our study suggests that providing reward framed incentives is more effective for increasing testing, and that increasing testing blindly can impair audit efficiency.

Keywords: Frame, rewards, penalties, objectivity, accuracy, judgment, diagnostic tasks, experiment, auditing

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Yue (Bright) and Shields, Timothy W., How Do Reward Versus Penalty Framed Incentives Affect Diagnostic Performance in Auditing? (March 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Barr-Pulliam , J F Brazel , J Mccallen , K Walker
Data Analytics and Skeptical Actions: The Countervailing Effects of False Positives and Consistent Rewards for Skepticism Posted: 2020-10-19
E Blocher , R P Moffie , R W Zmud
Report format and task complexity: Interaction in risk judgments
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. 457 - 470 Posted: 1986
S E Bonner
Experience effects in auditing: The role of task-specific knowledge
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 92 Posted: 1990
J F Brazel , C Gimbar , E M Maksymov , T J Schaefer
The outcome effect and professional skepticism: A replication and a failed attempt at mitigation
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 143 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
RANK
303,670
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies