Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Opportunity for Partner Industry Knowledge Sharing within Audit Offices and Audit Quality

58 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2024

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Dan Russomanno

Russomanno Research

Meiling Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

We conjecture that a greater opportunity for audit partners to share personal industry knowledge with each other within audit offices is associated with higher audit quality. Using PCAOB Form AP data we analyze each partner’s client portfolio and construct such sharing measures. First, we find extant measures of an audit office’s industry market share, industry portfolio share, and industry diversity are quite noisy in inferring our sharing measures. Next, we perform multivariate analyses and find negative associations between the opportunity to share industry knowledge and both restatements and absolute abnormal accruals. Further, we find this association varies cross-sectionally with other important auditor and client characteristics. Taken together, our evidence is consistent with a positive association between the opportunity for partners to share their industry knowledge with each other and audit quality.

Keywords: audit offices, audit partners, audit quality, industry knowledge and specialization, knowledge sharing, PCAOB Form AP

JEL Classification: D8, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Michas, Paul N. and Russomanno, Dan and Zhao, Meiling, The Opportunity for Partner Industry Knowledge Sharing within Audit Offices and Audit Quality (March 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4069529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4069529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
M Alvesson
American Institute of Certified Public Accountant (AICPA)
Knowledge Work and Knowledge-Intensive Firms. OUP Oxford Posted: 2004
M Ashraf , P N Michas , D Russomanno
The impact of audit committee information technology expertise on the reliability and timeliness of financial reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 56 Posted: 2020
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
190,991
2 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies