Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Man Versus Machine: Complex Estimates and Auditor Reliance on Artificial Intelligence

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 1

Posted: 3 Apr 2022

Benjamin P. Commerford

University of Kentucky, Gatton

Sean A. Dennis

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Jenny W. Ulla

Univerity of Nevada - Las Vegas, Lee School of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Audit firms are investing billions of dollars to develop artificial intelligence (AI) systems that will help auditors execute challenging tasks (e.g., evaluating complex estimates). Although firms assume AI will enhance audit quality, a growing body of research documents that individuals often exhibit “algorithm aversion”—the tendency to discount computer-based advice more heavily than human advice, although the advice is identical otherwise. Therefore, we conduct an experiment to examine how algorithm aversion manifests in auditor judgments. Consistent with theory, we find that auditors receiving contradictory evidence from their firm's AI system (instead of a human specialist) propose smaller adjustments to management's complex estimates, particularly when management develops their estimates using relatively objective (vs. subjective) inputs. Our findings suggest auditor susceptibility to algorithm aversion could prove costly for the profession and financial statements users.

Keywords: accounting estimates; auditing; artificial intelligence; algorithm aversion; subjectivity; competing information

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, O30, O33

Suggested Citation:

Commerford, Benjamin P. and Dennis, Sean A. and Joe, Jennifer R. and Ulla, Jennifer, Man Versus Machine: Complex Estimates and Auditor Reliance on Artificial Intelligence (March 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072876
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies