Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning from masters: Engagement partners’ co-signing relationships with non-engagement industry specialist partners and audit quality

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Ting‐Chiao Huang

Monash University

Yi-Hung Lin

Monash University

Chia-Hui Chen

National Dong Hwa University

Stephanie Hairston

Georgia Southern University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines a specific mechanism, partner co-signing relationships, through which knowledge sharing in an audit team may influence audit quality. Specifically, we examine whether an engagement partner’s co-signing relationships with non-engagement industry specialist partners are associated with audit quality. Using a unique setting in which co-signing relationships for each audit engagement is available, we find that audit quality is higher when the engagement partner for the focal client has co-signing relationships with non-engagement partners who are specialists in the focal client’s industry and that the positive association is more likely driven by a learning effect than a consultation effect. Further evidence suggests that attributes of co-signing relationships such as continuity matter and that co-signing relationships with industry specialist partners are more likely to be utilized when engagement partners have limited industry knowledge, clients operate in homogeneous industries, and engagement partners are from large audit firms. Overall, our results suggest that interactions with industry specialist partners facilitate knowledge sharing and hence improve audit quality.

Keywords: individual audit partner; industry expertise; audit quality; knowledge sharing.

JEL Classification: M4, M42.

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Ting-Chiao and Lin, Yi-Hung Jerry and Chen, Chia-Hui and Hairston, Stephanie, Learning from masters: Engagement partners’ co-signing relationships with non-engagement industry specialist partners and audit quality (April 1, 2022). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
A Journal of Practices & Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97
J C Bedard , D R Deis , M B Curtis , J G Jenkins
Risk monitoring and control in audit firms: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practices & Theory , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 218 Posted: 2008
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The effect of the social mismatch between staff auditors and client management on the collection of audit evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
499,164
1 Citations
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies