Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remote Auditing and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Field

50 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Yige Jin

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU); City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Gaoliang TIAN

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Xiangang Xin

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: April 6, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the impact of remote auditing on audit quality and the good practices undertaken by auditors to improve audit quality in remote auditing. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in China provides an opportune testing ground for analyzing this issue. Using both survey and archival data, we document that audit quality declines when auditors switch to remote auditing following the outbreak of the pandemic. More importantly, we find that several good practices—including timely adjustments to audit procedures, increased reliance on risk evaluation and data analysis, emphasizing the sufficiency and reliability of digital evidence, and leveraging information and communication technology—can effectively mitigate the adverse effect of remote auditing. Our findings can help financial-statement users better understand the quality of audits conducted virtually and offer implications for practitioners to improve audit quality in remote settings.

Keywords: Remote auditing, Audit quality, Information technology, Regulatory implications

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Yige and TIAN, Gaoliang and Wu, Donghui and Xin, Xiangang, Remote Auditing and Audit Quality: Evidence from the Field (April 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4076612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4076612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
The impact of COVID-19 on audit and assurance: Challenges and considerations Posted: 2020-06
K Albitar , A M Gerged , H Kikhia
Auditing in times of social distancing: The effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 178 Posted: 2020
J Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
T Baker , A S Miner , D T Eesley
Improvising firms: Bricolage, account giving and improvisational competencies in the founding process
Research Policy , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 276 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,131
RANK
12,375
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies