Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Client Acquisition Impair the Objectivity of Engagement Partners and Engagement Quality Review Partners?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming.

Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-16

Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 23 Nov 2022

Ian Chan

Nanyang Technological University - Nanyang Business School

Rong-Ruey Duh

Tunghai University - Department of Accounting

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: January 14, 2022

Abstract

We conduct two experiments using experienced audit partners as participants to investigate whether engagement partners’ involvement in the client acquisition process as the contact partner can influence their subsequent audit judgments, and whether the engagement quality review partner’s judgments are influenced when he or she is aware that engagement partners play both roles. As predicted, we find that engagement partners who are also the contact partners during client acquisition tend to make judgments that are biased in favor of the client. However, engagement quality review partners are not sensitive to whether the engagement partner was the contact partner or not, but may be motivated to make decisions that favor the engagement partner. Our results provide a deeper understanding of how the client acquisition process influences the judgments of various partners later in the course of audit engagements.

Keywords: engagement partner, engagement quality review partner, contact partner, review process

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Ian and Duh, Rong-Ruey and Tan, Hun-Tong, Does Client Acquisition Impair the Objectivity of Engagement Partners and Engagement Quality Review Partners? (January 14, 2022). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming., Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4080510
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies