Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network Connectedness and the Convergence of Audit Styles

57 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Lin Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE); The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: March 31, 2022

Abstract

Viewing audit teams as social groups of auditors, we utilize network analysis algorithm “n-clans” to identify clustering of individual auditors, that is, audit teams, based on individual collaboration history. Drawing upon social learning theory, we argue that team network connectedness, specifically network density and closeness, shapes the similarity in the audit styles among team members. We first validate the team construct by showing the existence of team styles in audit outcomes and audit pricing. Using the dispersion of audit outcomes and abnormal audit fees as inverse measures of au-dit-style similarity, we find that more closely connected teams exhibit lower within-team variation in these measures. Further, the role of network connectedness for the within-team convergence of audit styles is more pronounced when firm-level quality control is less robust, the teams include junior auditors, and the clients served by the teams are more divergent. Network density and closeness also strengthen the relation between audit-team style and that of team members. We extend prior literature by identifying the audit team as a relevant unit of the analysis for audit production and documenting the importance of network connectedness to more consistent audit outcomes.

Keywords: Audit Team; Social Network; Social Learning; Audit Style; Knowledge Sharing; Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M41; M42; D83

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Lin and Wang, Lin and Wu, Donghui and Zhao, Yuping, Network Connectedness and the Convergence of Audit Styles (March 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4086247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4086247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,588
RANK
135,862
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies