Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Auditors Assess Key Inputs in a Discounted Cash Flow Model of Goodwill?

Forthcoming in Behavioral Research in Accounting

72 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Lev Timoshenko

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

Using verbal protocol analysis, this study examines how 21 experienced auditors from four different firms assess the seven key inputs in a discounted cash flow (DCF) model used by management to value goodwill. The analysis compares the auditors’ processes against a theoretical model derived from an analysis of accounting and auditing standards and authoritative sources of valuation methodology and identifies systematic omissions and inaccurate applications of key audit steps. It also relates those issues to audit outcomes at the individual input and the overall goodwill evaluation levels. The study’s findings can help regulators, standard setters, practitioners and academics to better understand the limitations of auditors’ competencies so that they can design strategies for mitigating them.

Keywords: audit of estimates, goodwill impairment, discounted cash flow, verbal protocol analysis, fair value auditing processaudit of estimates, goodwill impairment, discounted cash flow, verbal protocol analysis, fair value auditing process

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Timoshenko, Lev, How Do Auditors Assess Key Inputs in a Discounted Cash Flow Model of Goodwill? (April 13, 2022). Forthcoming in Behavioral Research in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4088904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4088904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
K D Allee , D Erickson , A M Esplin , T L Yohn
The characteristics, valuation methods, and information use of valuation specialists
Accounting Horizons , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 38 Posted: 2020
J Annett , E Hollnagel
Hierarchical task analysis
Handbook of Cognitive Task Design , p. 17 - 35 Posted: 2003
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
S F Biggs , T J Mock
An investigation of auditor decision processes in the evaluation of internal controls and audit scope decisions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 234 - 255 Posted: 1983
Load more
2 Citations
Sean Hillison , Kamber Vittori
How Does Management Voluntary Disclosure Behavior Influence Auditors’ Judgments?
Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4660969, · 37 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 263
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sean Hillison , Kamber Vittori
How Does Management Voluntary Disclosure Behavior Influence Auditors’ Judgments?
Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4660969, · 37 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 263
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,303
RANK
204,845
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies