Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Gender-Related Differences at the Partner Level Affect Audit Quality?

65 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 21 Feb 2025

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Millie Hutton

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Thomas J. Lopez

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 11, 2025

Abstract

Prior literature arrives at mixed conclusions regarding the influence of U.S. audit partner gender on audit quality. We revisit this issue using an extensive sample of U.S. audits that incorporates eight years of Form AP disclosures and an inferentially powerful changes design. Our analyses empirically address competing theories of psychology-based and audit negotiations research that predict in certain contexts female and male partners will produce higher quality. While the results for limited cross-sections where negotiations may be more prevalent suggest male partners produce higher quality audits, our overall findings are most consistent with notions of institutional isomorphism which predict the homogeneity of top management in regulated fields like public accounting. Across 392 unique statistical tests, including numerous partitions most likely to manifest in gender-related differences, we find almost the exact pattern of results expected if the null hypothesis were true.  

Keywords: Audit Partners, Form AP, Audit Quality, Gender, Negotiations, Isomorphism

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Doxey, Marcus M and Hutton, Millie and Lopez, Thomas J., Do Gender-Related Differences at the Partner Level Affect Audit Quality? (February 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4088861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4088861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
148 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Aicpa
Statement on Quality Control Standards No. 8, a Firm's System of Quality Control
QC Section , volume 10 Posted: 2016
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
L M Andiola , D H Downey , K D Westermann
Examining climate and culture in audit firms: Insights, practice implications, and future research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,175
RANK
333,158
148 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies