Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Standard on Auditing No. 260 and Audit Quality Evidence from Jordan

15 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022

Shbeilat

Tafila Technical University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This study aims to explore the extent of external auditors awareness of the requirements of the International Standard on Auditing No. 260 (Communications with those charged with governance) on audit quality and to shed light on the effectiveness of the communication process based on auditors actual experience. A mixed method approach was employed to achieve the study objectives. The analysis of 116 questionnaires concluded that the requirements of the ISA 260 enhance audit quality, but the two way communication between Jordanian auditors and the audit committee is ineffective from external auditor’s perception. The study also found that audit committees do not support external auditor when disagreements arise betw een auditors and their client management on accounting treatments. The qualitative interviews confirmed the quantitative results and revealed several explanations among which: 1) lack of qualified directors, 2) lack of a clear policy in selecting board mem bers, 3) meetings with auditors are routinely held, and 4) insufficient oversight by the securities commission. The interviews also revealed that the recent version of Jordanian corporate governance has two potential factors have been viewed to improve the effectiveness of the communication process that are, the appointment of a ‘governance liaison officer’ who, among other responsibilities, supervise and document audit committee meetings with the auditor, and the use of cumulative voting technique in selec ting board members. The findings of the study could be beneficial for regulators by ensuring the best implementation of cumulative voting to increase the representation of qualified members so that the communication process will be greatly enhanced.

Keywords: Audit committees, audit quality, international Standard on Auditing 260, corporate communications, corporate governance.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48,

Suggested Citation:

Shbeilat, Mohammad K, International Standard on Auditing No. 260 and Audit Quality Evidence from Jordan (2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4094282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4094282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M Abdullatif , H Ghanayem , R Ahmad-Amin , S Al-Shelleh , L Sharaiha
The performance of audit committees in Jordanian public listed companies , volume 13 , p. 1122 - 1133 Posted: 2015
M Abdullatif
The Effectiveness of Audit Committees in Jordanian Public Shareholding Companies and Potential Company Characteristics Affecting It: Perceptions from Auditors in Jordan. Dirasat, Administrative Sciences , volume 33 , p. 450 - 468 Posted: 2006
Y Al-Frijat
The Dynamics Application of Accounting Standards, and Its Importance in the Measurement with Fair Value & Disclosure
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 46 - 59 Posted: 2016
H Al-Khaddash , R Al Nawas , A Ramadan
Factors affecting the quality of Auditing: The Case of Jordanian Commercial Banks
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 4 , issue 11 , p. 206 - 222 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
644,872
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies