Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taming the Few: Platform Regulation, Independent Audits, and the Risks of Capture Created by the DMA and DSA

Computer Law & Security Review, 43 (2021): 105613.

28 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022 Last revised: 17 Nov 2022

Johann Laux

University of Oxford - Oxford Internet Institute

Sandra Wachter

University of Oxford - Oxford Internet Institute

Brent Mittelstadt

University of Oxford - Oxford Internet Institute

Date Written: September 12, 2021

Abstract

In its attempt to better regulate the platform economy, the European Commission recently proposed a Digital Markets Act (DMA) and a Digital Services Act (DSA). While the DMA addresses worries about digital markets not functioning properly, the DSA is concerned with societal harms stemming from the dissemination of (illegal) content on platforms. Both proposals focus on the relative size of platforms. The DMA applies to ‘gatekeeper’ platforms and the DSA has a special regime of scrutiny for ‘very large online platforms’ (VLOPs). Focusing on size, however, can have negative consequences for the enforcement of the DSA: First, risks disseminated by platforms below the VLOP-threshold reside in a regulatory blind spot. Second, VLOPs may leverage their market power against their new mandatory auditors and risk assessors, a threat theorised as ‘audit capture’ in this article. As a result, societal risks may remain undiscovered or downplayed and consumers and citizens may be harmed. This article traces the origin of the size criteria in the legislative history of the DMA and DSA proposals. It argues for safeguards against audit capture and adverse incentive structures in the DSA. The article draws on the debate on audit reform in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2007–2008 to provide blueprints for fixing the regulatory gap.

Keywords: Digital Markets Act, Digital Services Act, Platform Economy, Platform Regulation, Digital Markets, Auditing, Market Power, Regulatory Capture, Incentives, Data Access, European Union Law, Targeted Advertising, Recommender Systems, Social Media

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Johann and Wachter, Sandra and Mittelstadt, Brent, Taming the Few: Platform Regulation, Independent Audits, and the Risks of Capture Created by the DMA and DSA (September 12, 2021). Computer Law & Security Review, 43 (2021): 105613., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4096655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4096655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
William F Shughart , Diana W Thomas
See further: George J. Stigler, 'The Theory of Economic Regulation' (1971) 2
Bell Journal of Economics and Management Science , volume 1 , p. 19 - 211 Posted: 1976
Richard A Posner
The Concept of Regulatory Capture': A Short, Inglorious History
Preventing Regulatory Capture: Special Interest Influence and How to Limit it Posted: 2013
Karen Yeung
The Oxford Handbook of Regulation Posted: 2010
Load more
10 Citations
David Hartmann , José Renato Laranjeira de Pereira , Chiara Streitbörger , Bettina Berendt
Addressing the regulatory gap: moving towards an EU AI audit ecosystem beyond the AI Act by including civil society
AI and Ethics , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 3617 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Emmie Hine , Isadora Neroni Rezende , Huw Roberts , David Wong , Mariarosaria Taddeo , Luciano Floridi
Safety and Privacy in Immersive Extended Reality: An Analysis and Policy Recommendations
Hine, E., Rezende, I.N., Roberts, H., Wong, D., Taddeo, M., Floridi, L. Safety and Privacy in Immersive Extended Reality: An Analysis and Policy Recommendations. Digital Society (2024). · 48 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 526
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rainer Mühlhoff , Hannah Ruschemeier
Democratising AI via Purpose Limitation for Models
AI for People Conference Proceedings - forthcoming · 20 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 366
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fred Gertsen
Two Climates of Change in Human Thought - Litigating Human Rights in Natural and Informational Ecosystems
54 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
156,431
10 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies