Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Auditing Profession: Individual Auditor Experiences and Contributions

51 Pages Posted: 5 May 2022 Last revised: 7 Jul 2022

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Kathryn M. Holmstrom

Iowa State University - College of Business

Carissa L. Malone

North Carolina State University

Date Written: June 2022

Abstract

While audit firms make efforts to increase diversity within their ranks, and diversity in audit firm offices improves audit quality, the auditing profession in the U.S. remains disproportionately White and male, particularly at the top ranks. Our goal is to understand how individuals can contribute to workplace diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in ways that are unique to the auditing environment. We conduct interviews with 32 audit professionals of all ranks, many with diverse backgrounds, and use Maslow’s hierarchy of needs applied to the workplace to understand how their experiences with their colleagues relate to individual and firm DEI outcomes. We find that for diverse auditors, the need for emotional safety, which forms the foundation for successive needs for belonging, esteem, and self-actualization, goes unmet for many different reasons. Thus, DEI efforts that target these higher order needs or help auditors move toward self-actualization are unlikely to have the desired impact unless inadequate emotional safety is also addressed. Encouragingly, our interviews suggest that auditors of all backgrounds and levels can contribute to building a more diverse and inclusive workplace through simple but intentional behaviors to increase auditors’ feelings of emotional safety. We identify behaviors of individual auditors that can complement larger scale office- and firm-wide efforts. These insights will provide audit firms with additional tools for promoting inclusivity and ultimately increasing diversity at the top ranks.

Keywords: audit profession; diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI); emotional safety; Maslow's hierarchy of needs; psychological safety; public accounting profession

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Holmstrom, Kathryn and Malone, Carissa, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Auditing Profession: Individual Auditor Experiences and Contributions (June 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4097145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4097145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
AICPA Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2022-04-26
H Bradbury , B M Bergmann-Lichtenstein
Relationality in Organizational Research: Exploring the Space Between
Organization Science , volume 11 , p. 551 - 564 Posted: 2000
M Cameran , A Ditillo , A Pettinicchio
Audit team attributes matter: How diversity affects audit quality
European Accounting Review , volume 27 , p. 595 - 621 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
630
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,301
RANK
96,929
7 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies