Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Shared Auditors Facilitate Follow-on Innovation?

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Jul 2025

Xuan Tian

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Jiawen Yan

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: July 06, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether shared auditors promote the dissemination of innovative knowledge among their clients, thereby fostering follow-on innovation. We find that a company cites more patents from another company when they are audited by the same audit office. To address concerns about potential confounding factors stemming from commonalities in the fundamentals of the two companies, we leverage a quasi-exogenous shock to auditor sharing: the demise of Arthur Andersen and the subsequent increase in auditor switching in 2002. Further analysis reveals that the effect of a shared auditor on cross-client patent citations is stronger when both clients engage in intensive innovation activities. Additional evidence suggests that shared auditors exert more influence on the citations of recent patents and patents that are easier for outsiders to utilize. Overall, our findings suggest that auditors affect corporate innovation by facilitating the transfer of innovative knowledge among their clients.

Keywords: Shared Auditor, Patent Citation, Innovation

JEL Classification: M42, O30

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Xuan and Yan, Jiawen and Zuo, Luo, Do Shared Auditors Facilitate Follow-on Innovation? (July 06, 2025). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
J Alcácer , M Gittelman
Patent citations as a measure of knowledge flows: The influence of examiner citations
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 774 - 779 Posted: 2006
J Alcácer , M Gittelman , B Sampat
Applicant and examiner citations in U.S. patents: An overview and analysis
Research Policy , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 415 - 427 Posted: 2009
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J Asker , A Ljungqvist
Competition and the structure of vertical relationships in capital markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 599 - 647 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
964
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,239
RANK
55,162
2 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies