Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Systematic Review of the Association between Big Data Analysis and the Financial Auditing

100 Pages Posted: 12 May 2022

Iyad Husni Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Fathilatul Zakimi Abdul Hamid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This systematic literature review provides the association between big data analysis and the financial auditing using PRISMA technique. Because of the deficient experience in the usage of big data analysis in the financial auditing, auditors could not use big data analysis perfectly among the audit processing. Therefore, they still use classical auditing with IT software audits. Throughout the big data analysis age, auditors may face challenges of big data analysis usage, resulting in the boundaries and restrictions. But big data analysis could provide easier way of processing and analysis of information. This research identified 84 studies related to auditing and big data analysis studies. The investigation represents beneficial prudence in several fields by determining research suppositions and questions that needs to be identified through the future research to obtain wide conception about the association between big data analysis and the financial auditing.

Keywords: Big Data - Big Data Analysis - Auditing - PRISMA methodology

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Iyad Husni and Abdul Hamid, Fathilatul Zakimi, A Systematic Review of the Association between Big Data Analysis and the Financial Auditing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4108212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4108212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
193 References
K A S Abdullah , A S Al-Hinai
Big Data in Sultan Qaboos University Libraries: Its Reality and the Impact of the Role of Managers as an Intermediary Variable to Benefit from in Improving Services , volume 9 Posted: 2018
Ima Acca
Digital Darwinism: thriving in the face of technology change Posted: 2013
O Ageeva , M Karp , A Sidorov
The Application of Digital Technologies in Financial Reporting and Auditing
, volume 155 Posted: 2021
F Ahmad
A systematic review of the role of Big Data Analytics in reducing the influence of cognitive errors on the audit judgement
Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
RANK
246,365
193 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies