Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Machine Learning Approach to Detect Accounting Fraud

62 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2022 Last revised: 26 Apr 2025

Arman Hassanniakalager

CMC Markets

Xinyu Ji

University of Bath, School of management

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: April 26, 2025

Abstract

This paper introduces a new fraud detection model to the accounting literature using machine learning (ML). This model, which we refer to as LogitBoost, applies ensemble learning to logistic regressions. We show, using seven performance measures assessing the ability to detect fraud, that our model outperforms the methods based solely on logistic regressions or other ML methods used by prior literature.  Further, we identify three key methodological choices in the application of ML methods in prior research which could introduce bias in fraud detection: the choice of potentially collinear predictors, the method used to optimize the hyperparameters and the approach used to deal with serial frauds. The research design which we use aims at minimizing the biases related to these issues. We show that these methodological choices can indeed influence the conclusions drawn from ML methods used by prior literature. In additional analyses, we show that LogitBoost outperforms the other models we use as benchmarks in the prediction of fraud in subsequent years. Finally, a fraud index based on the probabilities derived from LogitBoost exhibits a significantly negative association with firm valuation. 

Keywords: machine learning, logistic regressions, accounting irregularities, AAERs

JEL Classification: C44, C50, C53, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hassanniakalager, Arman and Ji, Xinyu and Perotti, Pietro and Tsoligkas, Fanis, A Machine Learning Approach to Detect Accounting Fraud (April 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan , Y Ke , B Li , B Yu , Y J Zhang , J
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2018
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Erratum: Detecting Accounting Fraud in Publicly Traded U.S. Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1635 - 1646 Posted: 2022
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,999
RANK
601,250
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies