Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence-Informed Audit Standard Setting: Exploring Evidence Use and Knowledge Transfer

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Jun 2022

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: May 9, 2022

Abstract

Academics and practitioners agree that there are substantial barriers to systematically transferring audit research knowledge to policy-makers. We adopt a design science approach to investigate the efficacy of employing a research synthesis, embedded in an interactive process with audit standard setters, to transfer such knowledge. We identify a standard-setting issue that, we argue, is typical of the class of problems encountered by both parties when attempting knowledge transfer. Following design science prescriptions, we evaluate the pragmatic validity of our prototype research synthesis and its creation process. We provide initial evidence (“proof of concept”) that a research synthesis process can effectively and efficiently facilitate academic research knowledge transfer to inform audit standard setters’ deliberations. Finally, we provide evidence that the problem of academic research knowledge transfer in accounting standard setting and evaluation continues. Our study and findings reflect how design science facilitates change in real-world problem contexts through research-based proofs of concept.

Keywords: audit and accounting standard setting, knowledge transfer, design science, practitioner interaction, research synthesis, simulation

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Kris and Luo, Yi and Salterio, Steven E., Evidence-Informed Audit Standard Setting: Exploring Evidence Use and Knowledge Transfer (May 9, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120830
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies