Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards Blockchain-Enabled ESG Reporting and Assurance: From the Perspective of P2P Energy Trading

37 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2022 Last revised: 28 Sep 2022

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Lanxin Jiang

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Wenjun Yu

Shengang Securities Co., Ltd.

Jun Dai

Michigan Technological University

Date Written: May 27, 2022

Abstract

Corporate disclosure of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) has dramatically increased and become an essential resource for worldwide investors. Both researchers and practitioners have devoted significant efforts to creating methodologies to achieve accurate, verifiable, and real-time ESG reports. The characteristics of blockchain, such as decentralization, transparency, and self-execution, could greatly improve the quality and timing of ESG reporting and assurance. Therefore, this paper describes a novel system to integrate ESG with financial information and report in real time via blockchain and automate assurance service via smart contracts. Armed with those technologies, the credibility, transparency, and traceability of ESG information could be largely improved, and automated and tamper-resistant continuous assurance could be enabled. The system is further implemented for a real P2P energy trading company as proof-of-concept. This system provides an example of leveraging emerging technologies to create novel disclosure and assurance methodologies, illuminating the future of ESG reporting and assurance.

Keywords: ESG, ESG reporting, ESG assurance, P2P energy trading, blockchain, smart contract

JEL Classification: C65, M40, M42, M48, O31

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yu and Jiang, Lanxin and Yu, Wenjun and Dai, Jun, Towards Blockchain-Enabled ESG Reporting and Assurance: From the Perspective of P2P Energy Trading (May 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Al Sadawi , A Madani , B Saboor , S Ndiaye , M Abu-Lebdeh , G
A comprehensive hierarchical blockchain system for carbon emission trading utilizing blockchain of things and smart contract
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 173 Posted: 2021
M G Alles , J Dai , M A Vasarhelyi
Reporting 4.0: Business Reporting for the Age of Mass Customization
Journal of Emerging Technology in Accounting Posted: 2021
M Alles , G L Gray
The first mile problem": Deriving an endogenous demand for auditing in blockchain-based business processes. International journal of accounting information systems , volume 38 Posted: 2020
Decentralized Computing Using Blockchain Technologies and Smart Contracts: Emerging Research and Opportunities: Emerging Research and Opportunities Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,452
RANK
93,330
5 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies