Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology and Evidence in Non-Big 4 Assurance Engagements: Insights from the COVID-19 Pandemic

Elizabeth C. Altiero, Lisa Baudot, Mouna Hazgui; Technology and Evidence in Non-Big 4 Assurance Engagements: Insights from the COVID-19 Pandemic. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2023; https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-068

40 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 7 Mar 2024

Elizabeth C. Altiero

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Lisa Baudot

HEC Paris

Mouna Hazgui

HEC Montreal - Department of Accounting Studies

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

We interviewed 30 assurance professionals in the US regarding how and to what extent non-Big 4 firms incorporated technologies into assurance engagements during the COVID-19 pandemic. Informed by technology acceptance models, our findings show that the pandemic played an accelerator role, prompting an open attitude toward experimenting with technologies in assurance engagements. This experimentation increased perceptions of the usefulness of technology in engagement efficiency, given easier and faster evidence gathering. However, the readiness and security of clients’ systems remain barriers in evidence gathering. Assurance professionals perceive technology as useful in producing better quality evidence evaluation, with usage stymied by challenges related to source data integrity, naïve use of tools, and distrust of outputs limiting the extent of change in evidence evaluation. Our study indicates more modest technology gains in evidence evaluation than in evidence gathering during the pandemic due to barriers with higher stakes, often directly tied to assurance conclusions.

Keywords: non-big 4; assurance; audit; technology; comfort; evidence

Suggested Citation:

Altiero, Elizabeth and Baudot, Lisa and Hazgui, Mouna, Technology and Evidence in Non-Big 4 Assurance Engagements: Insights from the COVID-19 Pandemic (September 5, 2023). Elizabeth C. Altiero, Lisa Baudot, Mouna Hazgui; Technology and Evidence in Non-Big 4 Assurance Engagements: Insights from the COVID-19 Pandemic. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2023; https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-068, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4125303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4125303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Simon Dermarkar , Lisa Baudot , Mouna Hazgui
A Glimpse Into the Innovative Landscape of the Accounting Profession From the Perspective of Prospective Accountants
<br> · 39 Pages · Posted: 29 Feb 2024 · Last revised: 26 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 165
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
344,239
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies