Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Believe Who You Trust: Auditor Source Credibility, PCAOB Inspection Outcomes, and Non-Professional Investor Judgments

46 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2022 Last revised: 23 Dec 2022

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Stephani Mason

DePaul University - School of Accountancy and Management Information Systems (MIS)

Leah Muriel

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

PCAOB inspection reports are one of the few sources of public information regarding audit quality and may offer signals of an auditor’s credibility consistent with source credibility theory. We conducted an experiment with non-professional investors, manipulating the auditor’s inspection deficiency rate (low versus high) and whether they attempted to breach the inspection (absent versus present). We find a negative association between deficiency rate and perceived expertise and between breaching the inspection and perceived trustworthiness. We observe that lower perceived expertise and trustworthiness are jointly associated with lower perceived auditor due care, lower perceived financial statement accuracy, and a lower likelihood of maintaining investment holdings. Inferences are similar for a second experiment measuring auditor trustworthiness as improperly revising materiality. In a third experiment, non-professional investors perceive the investment as less risky when the accounting firm communicates decisive actions to rectify the breach of trust, particularly when the deficiency rate is high.

Keywords: PCAOB, expertise, trust, due care, source credibility, materiality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Mason, Stephani and Muriel, Leah, Believe Who You Trust: Auditor Source Credibility, PCAOB Inspection Outcomes, and Non-Professional Investor Judgments (December 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Do investors find audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG 'steal the exam' scandal
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory Posted: 2022
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An Investigation of the Market Pricing of Auditor Competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars Blunder Posted: 2022
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
R M Alexander
The effects of source credibility on tax professional judgment in consulting engagements
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 25 , issue s-1 , p. 33 - 49 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
318,636
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies