Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Industry Range and Audit Quality

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2022 Last revised: 29 Dec 2023

Simon Dekeyser

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy, Finance and Insurance (AFI)

Xianjie He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Tusheng Xiao

Central University of Finance and Economics

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

We develop the concept of auditor industry range as the extent to which an auditor has experiences in auditing clients from different industries, and we link this construct to auditor performance, drawing on prior research in psychology and cognitive science. We find that auditors with a wide range of industry experiences are more likely to require audit adjustments than auditors with a narrow range. We conduct an extensive set of analyses to mitigate the concern that our results are driven by endogenous matching between auditors and clients. The positive relation between auditor industry range and audit adjustments exists regardless of whether the industries covered by an auditor’s portfolio exhibit strong or weak economic co-movement, and the relation is stronger for more complex clients, in more uncertain environments, and for auditors with more years of audit experience. Overall, our findings suggest that an auditor’s diverse experiences in different industries can enhance audit quality.

Keywords: Industry Range, Audit Quality, Audit Adjustment, Experience, Cognitive Entrenchment.

JEL Classification: M42.

Suggested Citation:

Dekeyser, Simon and He, Xianjie and Xiao, Tusheng and Zuo, Luo, Auditor Industry Range and Audit Quality (December 29, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4127436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4127436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 2002
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , S Siddiqui , A Vinelli
Heterogeneity in expertise in a credence goods setting: Evidence from audit partners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , p. 693 - 729 Posted: 2021
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,438
RANK
79,099
6 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies