Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The consequences of dividing responsibility for an audit engagement

Posted: 13 Jun 2022 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Bethany Courson

University of Missouri-Columbia

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: June 09, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether dividing responsibility for an audit engagement results in consequences to the principal auditor or audited company. We find that principal auditors are less likely to be named as defendants in restatement-related class action litigation and shareholders are less likely to initiate restatement-related litigation against the company when the principal auditor divides responsibility. We also find that principal auditors who divide responsibility are more likely to be replaced with a new auditor. Our findings should be informative to the PCAOB who recently decided to retain the principal auditor’s option to divide responsibility, help explain why principal auditors infrequently divide responsibility, and support stakeholder concerns that adding division of responsibility to the audit report could reduce auditor accountability for low-quality auditing.



Forthcoming at Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory.

Keywords: division of responsibility; litigation; standard-setting, litigation, auditor accountability, standard setting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Courson, Bethany and Czerney, Keith and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Thompson, Anne, The consequences of dividing responsibility for an audit engagement (June 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4127503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4127503
 Not Available for Download
58 References
M D Alicke
Culpable control and the psychology of blame
Psychological Bulletin , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
M D Alicke , J Buckingham , E Zell , T Davis
Culpable control and counterfactual reasoning in the psychology of blame
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 1371 - 1381 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
A Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies