Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Efficiency and Effectiveness Consequences of Accounting System Homogeneity Across Audit Clients: A New Form of Knowledge Spillover?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022

Uday S. Murthy

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Jong Chool Park

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Thomas Joseph Smith

University of South Florida

James Whitworth

University of South Florida

Date Written: June 7, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effects of a large number of clients in an audit office using the same enterprise-resource planning (ERP) system such as SAP or Oracle resulting in what we term “client accounting system homogeneity” on audit efficiency and effectiveness. Using a unique dataset of ERP system implementations, we find that accounting system homogeneity is positively associated with audit efficiency. Specifically, we find lower (higher) audit fees for clients using an ERP system from a vendor used by a higher (lower) proportion of clients in that office. We further document that accounting system homogeneity is associated with improved audit effectiveness as proxied by two accruals-based measures, incorrect internal control weakness reporting, and restatements. Our findings are reflective of a new form of knowledge spillover from repeated experiences auditing clients using similar accounting systems, resulting in audits that are not only less expensive but also of higher quality.

Keywords: Accounting System Homogeneity, ERP, Audit Efficiency, Audit Effectiveness

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Murthy, Uday S. and Park, Jong Chool and Smith, Thomas Joseph and Whitworth, James, Audit Efficiency and Effectiveness Consequences of Accounting System Homogeneity Across Audit Clients: A New Form of Knowledge Spillover? (June 7, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
R Akkiraju , A Ivan , P P Maglio , M Weske , J Yang , M Fantinato
Discovering business process similarities: An empirical study with SAP best practice business processes
International Conference on Service-Oriented Computing (ICSOC 2010) , volume 6470 , p. 515 - 526 Posted: 2010
Overall objectives of the independent auditor and the conduct of an audit in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards Posted: 0200
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jeny , L Jiang
The validity of auditor industry specialization measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,301
RANK
128,779
4 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies