Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors Under Fire: The Association Between Audit Errors and the Career Setbacks of Individual Auditors

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2022-084

Posted: 11 Oct 2022 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Kevin C. W. Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Weifang Han

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how individual auditors are disciplined for audit errors. Taking advantage of the long history of auditor identity data from China, we find that signing auditors with client restatements are likely to lose the privilege of signing the audit reports of public clients. However, auditors can avoid this consequence by issuing a modified audit opinion to warn of the potential misstatement. We show that auditors are more likely to be disciplined when their firms operate in less concentrated audit markets. Finally, we find positive outcomes from the disciplinary action of the audit firms. Firms that discipline their auditors for restatements have a larger decrease in the rate of client restatements and a larger increase in market share, compared to nondisciplining firms. Their clients have a higher earnings response coefficient after the disciplinary action. In summary, our results suggest that individual auditors in China can face career setbacks when they produce poor quality audits.

Keywords: audit failures, audit firm management, audit opinions, audit quality, auditing market, auditor incentives, auditor punishment, financial restatements

JEL Classification: J44, M12, M40, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kevin C.W. and Chen, Tai-Yuan and Han, Weifang and Yuan, Hongqi, Auditors Under Fire: The Association Between Audit Errors and the Career Setbacks of Individual Auditors (June 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2022-084, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132578
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies