Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Auditor Turnover and Audit Quality – Large Sample Evidence from U.S. Audit Offices

55 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022 Last revised: 10 Apr 2024

Tao Ma

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Chi Wan

San Diego State University

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: March 30, 2024

Abstract

We examine the relationship between audit quality and office-level auditor turnover. Using resumes of over 106,000 Big 4 auditors, we find that audit offices with higher turnover have a greater likelihood of client annual report restatements and are more likely to issue incorrect audit opinions on internal controls over financial reporting. These detrimental effects are more pronounced when the lost auditors are more experienced, when the office faces tighter human capital constraints, and are primarily attributable to voluntary turnover. Further, such negative effects are borne mostly by complex clients and intangible-intensive clients but are weakened for clients with greater product similarity to the client portfolio of the audit office. Last, the impact of office-level turnover on audit quality persists after controlling for firm-level turnover. Our findings inform the current policy debate on whether and to what extent audit firms should disclose auditor turnover as a potential indicator of audit quality.

Keywords: Auditor turnover, audit quality, audit quality indicators, financial restatements, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Tao and Wan, Chi and Wang, Yakun and Zhao, Yuping, Individual Auditor Turnover and Audit Quality – Large Sample Evidence from U.S. Audit Offices (March 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4132534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An Examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury Posted: 2008-10-06
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
D Anantharaman , N Wans
Audit office experience with SOX 404(b) filers and SOX 404 audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,121
RANK
25,957
4 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies