Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Text Similarity, Boilerplates and their Determinants in Key Audit Matters Disclosure

Corporate Ownership and Control / Volume 20, Issue 2, Winter 2023

14 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022 Last revised: 17 Jan 2023

Tobias Carlé

Technical University of Darmstadt

Nicolas Pappert

Technical University of Darmstadt

Reiner Quick

Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

Like the European Commission, many regulators and standard setters worldwide have substantially revised the requirements for auditor’s reports on statutory audits of public interest entities. Their objective was to improve the report’s information content and, hence, the transparency of the audit. A significant change was the introduction of a key audit matters (KAM) disclosure which increased the scope, meaningfulness, and individuality of auditor’s reports. However, critics fear that auditors could use similar or standard formulations (i.e., boilerplate reporting) and not really increase the information value of the auditor’s report. Therefore, this study investigates text similarities in KAM disclosure practice in the auditor’s reports of German HDAX-companies between 2017 and 2019. The results suggest that auditors often use similar formulations when disclosing a KAM on the same issue at the client level in consecutive years. We further find that the similarity rate is significantly negatively correlated to an audit firm change, and positively correlated to client firms which have a stable financial position measured by a high portion of equity.

Keywords: Key audit matters; auditor’s report; text similarity; boilerplate reporting; information value; audit quality.

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Carlé, Tobias and Pappert, Nicolas and Quick, Reiner, Text Similarity, Boilerplates and their Determinants in Key Audit Matters Disclosure (December 13, 2022). Corporate Ownership and Control / Volume 20, Issue 2, Winter 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4134984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4134984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
K Asbahr , K Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2019
J C Bédard , U Hoitash , R Hoitash
Audit pricing and internal control disclosures among non-accelerated filers
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 206 - 208 Posted: 2008
J Bédard , P Coram , R Espahbodi , T J Mock
Does recent academic research support changes to audit reporting standards? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of expanded audit reports: Evidence from the justifications of assessments in France
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
122,812
4 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies