Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Incentives and Audit Partner Reporting Decisions for Private Company Audits

61 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022

Marie-Laure Vandenhaute

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Date Written: April 29, 2022

Abstract

Over the past decade, the public accounting profession has significantly increased its use of non-equity partners for audits of private (non-listed) companies. Non-equity partners represent individuals allowed to lead audit engagements and sign the audit report but who do not share in the partnership’s profits. Agency theory predicts that equity partners and non-equity partners face different incentives. Using data from Big 4 private company audits during the period 2008–2017, we find that non-equity partners are less likely to issue going concern opinions to their financially distressed clients, that their reporting is less accurate (i.e., more Type II errors), and that they have a more aggressive reporting style. We also find that equity incentives mitigate some of the negative effects of fee-based compensation on auditors’ reporting behavior. Moreover, our findings suggest that incentives arising from ownership drive these associations rather than innate differences or client differences.

Keywords: Equity Partner, Non-Equity Partner, Auditor Reporting, Professional Service Firm

JEL Classification: M42, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Vandenhaute, Marie-Laure and Hardies, Kris, Equity Incentives and Audit Partner Reporting Decisions for Private Company Audits (April 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4136402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4136402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American economic review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
E D Almer , M G Lightbody , L E Single
Successful promotion or segregation from partnership? An examination of the "post-senior manager" position in public accounting and the implications for women's careers
Accounting Forum , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 122 - 133 Posted: 2012
E D Almer , M Lightbody , L E Single , B Vigilante
New Leadership Tracks in Accounting Firms: An Alternative to the Partnership , volume 5 , p. A39 - A53 Posted: 2011
AICPA Work/Life and Women's Initiatives 2004 Research: A decade of changes in the accounting profession: Workforce trends and human capital practices Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
413,954
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies