Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Quality?

Corporate Ownership & Control Journal, 19(2), 204-2016 (2022)

13 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2022

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Hekmat Ebrahim

Ain Shams University

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates and assesses whether a joint audit engagement results in higher audit quality compared to a single audit given audit firms’ characteristics and complexity of their clients’ activities. The research adopts a survey-based questionnaire sent to external auditors of five audit firms with international affiliation including two Big 4 firms to assess their perceptions about whether joint audit improves audit quality compared to a single audit. Also, interviews with audit partners and professors of auditing were made to check the reliability of the survey. Descriptive and inferential statistics are used to test the research hypotheses. The results reveal that joint audit enhances the quality of the audit as auditors in joint audits deliver high audit quality and ensure continuity with the client. The results also confirm the importance to perform joint audit engagements involving one of the Big 4 with one audit partner possessing industry specialization related to the audit engagement. However, no variation was found in audit quality in a joint audit compared to a single audit for listed companies compared to non-listed companies even when there are discrepancies in the joint audit partners’ level of competence and experience. The study is among the first to survey the impact of joint audits compared to single audits on audit quality in an emerging economy. The study identifies valuable insights and provides recommendations to audit firms, professional and oversight bodies, and government to encourage the use of joint audits versus single audits to improve audit quality.

Keywords: Auditing, Joint Audit, Single Audit, Big 4, Client Complexity, Audit Tenure, Egypt

JEL Classification: C12, D24, D53, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A. and ebrahim, hekmat, Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Quality? (March 14, 2022). Corporate Ownership & Control Journal, 19(2), 204-2016 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4137737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D S Abdelrazik
The determinants of audit fees and report lag: A comparative study of Egypt and the UK Posted: 2017
F S Alanezi , M M Alfaraih , E A Alrashaid , S S Albolushi
Dual/joint auditors and the level of compliance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS-Required disclosure): The case of financial institutions in Kuwait
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 109 - 129 Posted: 2012
M M Alfaraih , F S Alanezi
The effectiveness of joint auditor requirements in promoting corporate disclosure quality
Arab Journal of Administrative Sciences , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 270 Posted: 2012
H Al-Khaddash , R Al Nawas , A Ramadan
Factors affecting the quality of auditing: The case of Jordanian commercial banks
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 4 , issue 11 , p. 205 - 210 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Dr Prem Lal Joshi
A Review of the Literature on Joint Audit and Audit Quality, Audit, Costs, and Market Concentration
37 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 169
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
239,334
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies