Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Onboarding during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Insights from New Hires Entering the Audit Profession

30 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2022

Danielle Booker

Loyola University of Chicago

Erin M Hawkins

Clemson University

Scott D. Vandervelde

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Yi-Jing Wu

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Date Written: June 16, 2022

Abstract

The pivot from in-person to remote work due to the COVID-19 pandemic forced audit firm leaders to reevaluate work practices and to implement new strategies to cope with this profound transition in the profession. At the forefront of audit firm priorities is the new hire onboarding process, which is critical in shaping new auditors’ initial work experiences and their long-term commitment to the firm and profession. Drawing from organizational socialization theory, this study explores the onboarding process in a remote environment. Results of a field-based survey of 56 new staff auditors suggest that new hires experienced a more institutionalized, rather than an individualized, onboarding process. We also report aspects of the remote onboarding process auditors viewed positively and present auditor provided recommendations for improvements. Results of this study provide important insights regarding the remote onboarding process through the theoretical lens of organizational socialization and provide implications for future research and audit firms.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, onboarding, novice auditors, training, socialization

Suggested Citation:

Booker, Danielle and Hawkins, Erin M and Vandervelde, Scott D. and Wu, Yi-Jing, Onboarding during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Insights from New Hires Entering the Audit Profession (June 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
B K Ashforth , A M Saks
Socialization tactics: Longitudinal effects on newcomer adjustment
Academy of Management Journal , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1996
T D Bauer , K A Humphreys , K T Trotman
Group judgment and decision making in auditing: Research in the time of COVID-19 and beyond
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 23 Posted: 2022
T N Bauer , B Erdogan
(CAQ). 2021. Impacts on talent and learning & development. Panel session at CAQ Symposium
, volume 3 , p. 51 - 64 Posted: 2011
P H Church
Assimilation of new hires in public accounting
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. A25 - A34 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
170,122
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies