Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disputed Interpretations and Active Strategies of Resistance during An Audit Regulatory Debate

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Forthcoming

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-12-2020-5049, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2022

Michael Harber

University of Notre Dame Australia

Grietjie Verhoef

University of Johannesburg

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose – The paper examines disputed interpretations of ‘key meanings’ between the audit regulator and Big 4 firms during a highly contentious regulatory debate, showcasing their use of ‘strategies of resistance’ to achieve their intended outcomes.

Design/methodology/approach – A qualitative analysis is performed of the discourse in a South African audit regulatory debate, set within the country’s unique political and historical context. The analysis is informed by the theoretical construct of a ‘regulatory space’ and an established typology of strategic responses to institutional pressures.

Findings – Our findings show how resistance to regulatory intentions from influential actors, notably the Big 4 firms, was dispelled. This was achieved by the regulator securing oversight independence, co-opting political support, shortening the debate timeline and unilaterally revising the interpretation of its statutory mandate. The regulator successfully incorporated race equality into its interpretation of how the public interest is advanced (in addition to audit quality). The social legitimacy of the Big 4 was then further undermined. The debate was highly contentious and unproductive and likely contributed to overall societal concerns regarding the legitimacy of, and the value ascribed to, the audit function.

Practical implications – A deeper appreciation of vested interests and differing interpretations of key concepts and regulatory logic could help to promote a less combative regulatory environment, in the interest of enhanced audit quality and the sustainability and legitimacy of the audit profession.

Originality/value – The context provides an example, contrary to that observed in many jurisdictions, where the Big 4 fail to actively resist or even dilute significant regulatory reform. Furthermore, the findings indicate that traditional conceptions of what it means to serve ‘the public interest’ may be evolving in favour of a more liberal social democratic interpretation.


Keywords: Public interest, Audit regulation, Audit quality, Auditor rotation

Suggested Citation:

Harber, Michael and Verhoef, Grietjie and de Villiers, Charl, Disputed Interpretations and Active Strategies of Resistance during An Audit Regulatory Debate (2020). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Forthcoming, Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-12-2020-5049, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4151059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M Annisette , A Prasad
Critical accounting research in hyper-racial times
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 43 , p. 5 - 19 Posted: 2017
E Arrington , A Puxty
Accounting, interests, and rationality: A communicative relation
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 2 , p. 31 - 58 Posted: 1991
ASISA: Response to the IRBA Consultation Paper (Received directly from the ASISA)
ASISA Posted: 2017
C R Baker
What is the meaning of "the public interest"? Examining the ideology of the American public accounting profession. Accounting
Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 690 - 703 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies