Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Back to Where it Started? — Do Expanded Audit Reports Become Sticky, Generic, and Boilerplate Over Time?

56 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 14 Sep 2023

Andreas Seebeck

Jacobs University Bremen

Date Written: September 14, 2023

Abstract

Although auditing standards instruct auditors to avoid issuing standardized key audit matters (KAMs), standard setters warn and financial statement users worry about expanded auditor’s reports becoming sticky, generic, and boilerplate over time. Based on textual analysis of expanded auditor’s reports from the UK, I provide longitudinal evidence of an increase in various textual similarity measures including year-over-year similarity (stickiness), within-peer group similarity (generality), and boilerplate language over time. Next, I identify a number of crucial drivers of convergence, and find that disclosure similarity diminishes the positive capital market effect of precise KAM reporting documented in prior studies. Together, these findings suggest that audit firms have successively developed standard text modules for KAM reporting that undermine the aim of expanded auditor’s reports to provide informative value. This paper extends the literature on the relationship between institutional environments and unintended effects of auditor disclosure regulation.

Keywords: expanded audit reports, key audit matters (KAMs), critical audit matters (CAMs), similarity, boilerplate language, auditor reporting regulation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Seebeck, Andreas, Back to Where it Started? — Do Expanded Audit Reports Become Sticky, Generic, and Boilerplate Over Time? (September 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4153536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4153536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
K Asbahr , K Ruhnke
Real effects of reporting key audit matters on auditors' judgment and choice of action
International Journal of Auditing , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2019
Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor's Report , volume 701 Posted: 2017
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Costs and benefits of reporting key audit matters in the audit report: The French experience. International Symposium on Audit Research , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
841
RANK
439,313
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies