Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Big, Going Small, Strategies for Researching Audit Quality

34 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Date Written: October 11, 2022

Abstract

My Inaugural Lecture at Maastricht University updates how archival audit research has evolved since the summary in Francis (1994) of what we knew then from archival research, and describes my own journey from “going big” and asking basic questions about the audit market, to “going small” with a focus on smaller units of analysis (offices, partners, and engagement teams) as the key to understanding audit quality. I used to believe that audit firm differences, and differences across offices within firms, were the most important audit-related sources of variation in quality, and that differences in people and audit teams were relatively unimportant. The evidence in Cameran, Campa and Francis (2022) convinced me otherwise. I now believe that partner-led engagement teams are just as important (maybe more important) than audit firms and offices in studying audit quality. However, audit firms are still something of a black box, and our knowledge to date has been limited to what we can publicly observe about their organizational structures. In particular, we cannot observe people and engagement teams beyond the identity of the engagement partner, at least not with publicly available data. To learn more means going inside the black box of audit firms, and that means getting the assistance of audit firms to help with such research. I started my career as an applied economist using publicly available data to ask basic questions about the audit market and the demand for and supply of quality-differentiated audits. Now I see myself as more of a management scientist, moving inside the organization to understand the consequences for audit quality arising from the internal culture of an audit firm, the personal characteristics of the people who work in audit firms, and the behaviors within the partner-led engagement teams that result in high-quality audit outcomes. To do this research requires proprietary data from audit firms, and interaction with the professionals who work in these firms. I thank the Foundation for Auditing Research in the Netherlands for facilitating my access to audit firms and their staff, and for the assistance of these firms in helping me to research the organizational drivers of high-quality audits.

Keywords: Archival Audit Research, Audit Quality, Units of Analysis in Audit Research

JEL Classification: J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R., Going Big, Going Small, Strategies for Researching Audit Quality (October 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4154560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Audit Analytics
Serving Their Purpose? Insight on Critical + Key Audit Matters. The report is available at WWW. Auditanalytics.com Posted: 2012
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J Yang
Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
S Bandyopadhyay , J Francis
The Economic Effect of Different Levels of Auditor Assurance on Bankers' Lending Decisions
Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 238 - 249 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
164,343
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies