Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Auditors’ Propensity to Issue Going-Concern Opinions in Australia After the Global Financial Crisis

Carson, E., Fargher, N., & Zhang, Y. (2019). Explaining auditors’ propensity to issue going‐concern opinions in Australia after the global financial crisis. Accounting & Finance, 59(4), 2415-2453.

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Elizabeth Carson

RMIT University; University of New South Wales

Neil L. Fargher

Australian National University (ANU)

Yuyu Zhang

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 7, 2019

Abstract

We document an increase in auditors issuing going-concern opinions in Australia over a prolonged period since the Global Financial Crisis that is not fully explained by changes in client risk. Overall, our evidence is consistent with auditors reporting more conservatively with the increased level of scrutiny from Australian Securities and Investments Commission inspections and other increased regulation, and in particular, the negative attention following the 2011–2012 inspections. As a result, auditor reports with reference to going concern issues have become less informative regarding future corporate failure.

Keywords: Auditor inspections; Auditor reporting; Going concern

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Carson, Elizabeth and Fargher, Neil L. and Zhang, Yuyu, Explaining Auditors’ Propensity to Issue Going-Concern Opinions in Australia After the Global Financial Crisis (July 7, 2019). Carson, E., Fargher, N., & Zhang, Y. (2019). Explaining auditors’ propensity to issue going‐concern opinions in Australia after the global financial crisis. Accounting & Finance, 59(4), 2415-2453., UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155859
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies