Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data and Artificial Intelligence in the Fields of Accounting and Auditing: A Bibliometric Analysis

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting. Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022

María Agustí

University of Seville

MANUEL ORTA-PÉREZ

University of Seville

Date Written: July 6, 2022

Abstract

The importance of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence in the fields of accounting and auditing is beyond doubt. However, to date, the influence of these technologies on these fields has yet to be uncovered, and the works that have analyzed such influence are still scarce. In an attempt to describe the development of this research trend and to understand its future directions of development, this article develops a bibliometric analysis to identify the different research fronts associated with this emerging topic. Using co-word and bibliographic coupling techniques, this paper aims to expand and extend the knowledge on this research line, to describe the evolution of publication activity, and to identify the most representative authors and journals. The paper also offers insights into potential new directions and declining perspectives, while summing up the most relevant literature within a specific area.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, Accounting, Auditing, Bibliometry, Bibliographic Coupling, Co-word

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Agustí, María and ORTA-PÉREZ, MANUEL, Big Data and Artificial Intelligence in the Fields of Accounting and Auditing: A Bibliometric Analysis (July 6, 2022). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting. Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
F Aboagye-Otchere , C Agyenim-Boateng , A Enusah , T E Aryee
A Review of Big Data Research in Accounting. Intelligent Systems in Accounting
Finance and Management , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 268 - 283 Posted: 2021
F J Acedo , J C Casillas
Current paradigms in the international management field: An author co-citation analysis
International Business Review , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 619 - 639 Posted: 2005
F J Acedo , C Barroso , J L Galan
The resource-based theory: dissemination and main trends
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 621 - 636 Posted: 2006
D Agostino , Y Sidorova
How social media reshapes action on distant customers: some empirical evidence
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 777 - 794 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
763
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,645
RANK
75,850
3 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies