Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Trends and Innovation in Internal Audit Practices: An Indian Perspective

9 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2022

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: July 11, 2022

Abstract

A sound audit practice is the backbone of any corporate governance system. It supports in making high-quality audit report which throws light on the true and fair view of accounts maintained by the companies. High-quality audit reports enhance the confidence in the minds of various stakeholders and their value as well. Internal audit practices followed by the company are essential in preventing financial frauds and manipulation of books of accounts and help in assuring a true and fair view of financial statements. This article outlines the emerging trends in internal audit practices and various innovations therein.

Keywords: Internal audit, ESG audit, RPA in audit

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Emerging Trends and Innovation in Internal Audit Practices: An Indian Perspective (July 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4159211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4159211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M B Adams
Agency theory and the internal audit
Report of the committee on the financial aspects of corporate governance , volume 1 Posted: 1992
J Christopher , G Sarens , P Leung
A critical analysis of the independence of the internal audit function: evidence from Australia
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal Posted: 2009
A D Dzikrullah , I Harymawan , M C Ratri
Internal audit functions and audit outcomes: Evidence from Indonesia
Cogent Business & Management , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
P P Gupta , M R Ray
The changing roles of the internal auditor
Managerial Auditing Journal Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,130
RANK
228,448
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies