Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Audit Committee Social Capital & Auditor Tenure on the Adoption of Coso 2013 Framework

51 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2022

NUSRAT FARAH

Independent

Md Shariful Islam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Amanuel Fekade Tadesse

University of New Orleans

William R. McCumber

College of Business, Louisiana Tech University

Abstract

The study aims to examine the effect of Audit Committee social capital, measured using network centrality from social network theory, and auditor tenure on the adoption of COSO 2013 framework. Drawing on social capital literature, we argue that well-connected audit committees have informational advantages and reputational concerns, which prompt them to learn more about the best industry practices and adopt those practices in their own organizations. We also argue that organizations with longer auditor tenure are more likely to listen to auditors’ recommendations of transitioning to an updated internal control framework because of longer working relationship, trust, and cooperation. As predicted, we find organizations that have well-connected audit committees and longer auditor tenure are more likely to adopt COSO 2013 framework and do so timely. Additional analysis indicates that our findings are driven by the overall audit committee connectedness and not by the connectedness of committee chairs, committee financial experts, or committee members, and hold only for accelerated filers. Further, we find that audit committee connectedness may prompt KPMG client organizations to adopt the updated framework. The results hold even after controlling for CEO and CFO connectedness and are robust to endogeneity concerns. By linking audit committee connectedness and auditor tenure with COSO 2013 adoption, we add to the literature investigating the effect of audit committee and auditor characteristics on compliance with internal control framework.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Social Capital, Auditor Tenure, COSO 2013 Framework.

Suggested Citation:

FARAH, NUSRAT and Islam, Md Shariful and Tadesse, Amanuel Fekade and McCumber, William R., Impact of Audit Committee Social Capital & Auditor Tenure on the Adoption of Coso 2013 Framework. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4160458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Noel D Addy , Nathan R Berglund
Determinants of Timely Adoption of the 2013 COSO Integrated Framework
Journal of Information Systems , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2020
Stephen K Asare
Auditors' Internal Control over Financial Reporting Decisions: Analysis, Synthesis, and Research Directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2013
Timothy B Bell , Monika Causholli , W Robert Knechel
Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services, and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
Avishek Bhandari , Babak Mammadov , Austin Shelton , Maya Thevenot
It Is Not Only What You Know, It Is Also Who You Know: CEO Network Connections and Financial Reporting Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
552,835
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies