Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Switching Costs and Market Power in Auditing: Evidence from a Structural Approach

55 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Qiang Guo

University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Aiyong Zhu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accounting

Date Written: August 1, 2023

Abstract

This study provides novel evidence on the magnitude of switching costs in auditing. We use a discrete choice approach to infer switching costs from clients' auditor choices. The demand estimation reveals that switching costs matter and that they differ by the direction with switching from non-Big 4 to Big 4 auditors being associated with the greatest switching costs. Counterfactual analyses of forced auditor switches indicate that switching costs are substantial, ranging from 0.7 billion US dollars (14.2% of audit fees) to 1.2 billion US dollars (24.0%) when aggregated across all clients. Counterfactual analyses of voluntary auditor switches show that the audit market would become highly dynamic and more concentrated if switching costs were removed. Furthermore, clients would gain consumer surplus of up to 306 million US dollars (5.4% of audit fees) in this scenario. Overall, our study documents the important role of switching costs to understand audit market dynamics.

Keywords: switching costs, auditor switching, auditor choice, auditor market power, audit market, audit market concentration, audit market segmentation

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Qiang and Koch, Christopher and Zhu, Aiyong, Switching Costs and Market Power in Auditing: Evidence from a Structural Approach (August 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4166004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4166004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
S C Asthana , S Balsam , J Krishnan
Corporate governance, audit firm reputation, auditor switches, and client stock price reactions: The Andersen experience
International Journal of Auditing , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 274 - 293 Posted: 2010
A Barua , C Lennox , A Raghunandan
Are audit fees discounted in initial year audit engagements?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
K Bawa
Modeling inertia and variety seeking tendencies in brand choice behavior
Marketing Science , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 263 - 278 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,706
RANK
176,641
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies