Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does PCAOB regulatory enforcement deter low quality audits?

55 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Michael J. Mowchan

Baylor University

Wei Zhang

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: July 14, 2022

Abstract

Regulatory economics suggests that one benefit of public enforcement is the deterrence of improper conduct. Using a difference-in-differences design, we investigate whether a deterrence effect follows the revelation of PCAOB enforcement. We find that large audit firm offices improve audit quality following enforcement naming another office within their firm while small firm offices improve following enforcement of local small firm competitors, with these responses varying by enforcement type. To understand potential mechanisms for the geographic deterrence effect, we examine the first occurrence of a revoked PCAOB registration within a market and find that results are stronger if there is greater news coverage or if non-sanctioned firms are in closer proximity to the sanctioned auditor. Supplemental tests reveal that results are stronger when non-sanctioned auditor clients are similar to the sanctioned firm’s clientele. Our findings suggest a positive, but varied deterrence effect following PCAOB enforcement.

Keywords: PCAOB enforcement, audit quality, regulation, restatements, sanctions

JEL Classification: G38, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Mowchan, Michael J. and Zhang, Wei, Does PCAOB regulatory enforcement deter low quality audits? (July 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4166137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4166137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The economic consequences of financial restatements: Evidence from the market for corporate control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
120,303
4 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies