Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Teams Affect Audit Production and Quality? Evidence from Audit Teams’ Industry Knowledge

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

Posted: 9 Mar 2023

Steven F. Cahan

University of Auckland Business School

Limei Che

OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University; Universityof South-Eastern Norway: School of Business; Peking University HSBC Business School

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Tobias Svanström

Umeå University; Norwegian School of Management (BI)

Date Written: July 7, 2022

Abstract

We examine how the extent and distribution of industry knowledge within an audit team affect audit outcomes. While prior research examining the role of auditors’ industry knowledge focuses mainly on audit firms, audit offices, and audit partners, audits are conducted by audit teams. Using an audit framework and proprietary data from a Big 4 firm that includes audit hours for each team member, we find that Big 4 audit teams with higher average industry knowledge are associated with more audit effort. In contrast, we find mixed evidence on the relation between the average hourly internal cost rate and team knowledge. Further, we find that balanced teams, which have at least one team member who qualifies as an industry specialist at both the senior rank and junior rank, produce higher quality audits than teams that have no specialists. In contrast, the audit quality of unbalanced teams, which have a specialist at the senior rank but not the junior rank or vice versa, is not statistically different than teams with no specialists. Overall, our evidence suggests that both the extent and distribution of industry knowledge within a team matter for audit production and that industry knowledge is utilized more effectively when it is spread throughout the team. The findings have useful implications for audit firms and regulators regarding how team composition and industry knowledge affect audit outcomes.

Keywords: audit teams, audit production, audit quality, industry knowledge, team composition, team dynamics

Suggested Citation:

Cahan, Steven F. and Che, Limei and Knechel, Warren Robert and Svanström, Tobias, Do Audit Teams Affect Audit Production and Quality? Evidence from Audit Teams’ Industry Knowledge (July 7, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167421
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies