Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Audit Risk Disclosure in Financial Reporting Precision and the Quality of Audited Financial Reports

Posted: 27 Jul 2022

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

We study the impact of audit risk disclosure in a model in which a client company privately spends corporate resources to improve its financial reporting precision. The financial reporting precision represents the audit risk associated with measurement uncertainty. Without audit risk disclosure, the capital market cannot observe the precision and must price the client value based on its conjecture. With audit risk disclosure requirements, an auditor is mandated to disclose the precision, in addition to an audited financial report, to the market. Thus, audit risk disclosure provides the client another channel to influence the market's perceptions. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, we find that the client tends to spend fewer corporate resources on precision with audit risk disclosure. As a result of lower precision, audit risk disclosure may lower the informativeness of audited financial reports, albeit ex-post communicating more information to the market. We also find that audit risk disclosure reduces the client's ex-ante payoff when the auditor bears a high misstatement cost due to audit failure. This paper provides empirical implications for recent reforms of audit risk disclosure.

Keywords: Audit Risk Disclosure; Audit fee; Audit quality; Audit Reform

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingcherng and Wen, Xiaoyan, The Role of Audit Risk Disclosure in Financial Reporting Precision and the Quality of Audited Financial Reports (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168421
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
595
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies