Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Costs and Benefits of a Risk-Based PCAOB Inspection Regime

Accounting, Organizations and Society (forthcoming)

Posted: 29 Jul 2022 Last revised: 17 May 2024

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the costs and benefits of the PCAOB’s risk-based inspection regime by studying how auditors respond to engagement-level inspection risk. Using an established inspection selection model, we find evidence that auditors behave consistent with accountability theory when auditing clients with elevated ex-ante inspection risk. Specifically, we observe an increased propensity to report material weaknesses, a decreased propensity to assert that previous material weaknesses have been remediated, increased audit effort, and a decreased likelihood of subsequent financial statement restatement. In general, these outcomes reflect auditors’ attempts to minimize negative inspection outcomes in a way that could be beneficial to investors. However, auditors’ apparent focus on relative inspection risk also creates potential costs for investors as evidenced by an increased likelihood of resignation from the client and inattention to clients with relatively lower inspection risk when auditor resources are most constrained. Importantly, several tests provide evidence that auditors’ response to inspection risk is distinct from and incremental to their response to misstatement risk. Overall, our findings suggest that there are potential benefits and potential costs associated with auditors’ responses to a selection approach that is primarily risk-based.

Keywords: Accountability theory, PCAOB, inspections, audits

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Newton, Nathan J. and Wilkins, Michael S., Costs and Benefits of a Risk-Based PCAOB Inspection Regime (May 16, 2024). Accounting, Organizations and Society (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4172241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4172241
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies