Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Finance Policy, Financial Risk, and Audit Quality: Evidence from China

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

41 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022

Yunlin Tian

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science (AMSS); University of Wollongong

Xiaofei Pan

University of Wollongong

Date Written: July 29, 2022

Abstract

Using the green finance policies (GFPs) in China as a shock to capital allocation, we find that the implementation of GFPs improves audit quality for green firms. Specifically, green firms are likely to receive favorable audit opinions, pay lower audit fees, and generate higher-quality financial reports after the implementation of GFPs. When examining the mechanisms through which GFPs affect audit risk for green firms, we find that green firms are likely to experience lower financial risks and have access to more bank loans at a lower cost after the implementation of GFPs. Further analysis shows that the main results are more pronounced when GFPs are better enforced, where auditors face more government intervention, and where firms are financially constrained. Overall, we document that GFPs decrease financial risk for green firms and have a positive spillover to auditors by mitigating audit risk.

Keywords: Green finance policy, Audit opinion, Audit fee, China

JEL Classification: G11, G2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Yunlin and Pan, Xiaofei, Green Finance Policy, Financial Risk, and Audit Quality: Evidence from China (July 29, 2022). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4176599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Atanassov
Arm's length financing and innovation: Evidence from publicly traded firms
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 128 - 155 Posted: 2016
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
S M Bartram , K Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
T B Bell , W R Landsman , D A Shackelford
Auditors' perceived business risk and audit fees: Analysis and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 43 Posted: 2001
Load more
1 Citations
Gary Gang Tian , Kun Tracy Wang , yue wu
Does the Market Value the Green Credit Performance of Banks? Evidence from Bank Loan Announcements
British Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 3 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
761
RANK
193,945
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies