Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Rating Agency Response to Appointment of Female Auditors: Evidence from the UK

Owusu, A. & Zalata, A. (2022). Credit rating agency response to appointment of female auditors: Evidence from the UK. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming.

37 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

We study the impact of appointing women at audit partner positions from a credit rating agency perspective. We investigate whether credit rating agency value the appointment of women to audit partner positions differently than they do for the appointment of men. This study uses a UK balanced panel data of 2,472 firm-year observations of public quoted companies from 2009 to 2016 and analyses how credit rating agencies respond to such appointments. We find a positive credit score reaction after appointment of a female auditor than that following the appointment of a male auditor. This finding suggests that, from a credit rating agency perspective, there seems to be a business case for a particular gender when it comes to appointing audit partner.

Keywords: auditor gender; credit scores; debt market; audit quality

JEL Classification: G38, H83, M42

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews and Zalata, Alaa, Credit Rating Agency Response to Appointment of Female Auditors: Evidence from the UK (August 1, 2022). Owusu, A. & Zalata, A. (2022). Credit rating agency response to appointment of female auditors: Evidence from the UK. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4177135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams
Women on boards: The superheroes of tomorrow? The Leadership Quarterly , volume 27 , p. 371 - 386 Posted: 2016
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
S Alhababsah , S Yekini
Audit committee and audit quality: An empirical analysis considering industry expertise, legal expertise and gender diversity
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
627,303
1 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies