Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Index Mutual Fund Ownership and Financial Reporting Quality

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2022

Ahmed S. Baig

Boise State University - College of Business and Economics

Jared DeLisle

Utah State University - Huntsman School of Business

Gulnara R. Zaynutdinova, Ph.D.

West Virginia University, Department of Finance

Abstract

We examine the relation between index mutual fund ownership and financial reporting quality measured by the propensity for fraudulent statements (Beneish’s (1999) M-Score) and accounting aggressiveness (discretionary accruals). We find that index mutual fund ownership is negatively related to both measures of financial reporting quality, suggesting that index mutual funds provide a monitoring role with respect to financial reporting quality. These relations are muted when firms employ one of the four largest auditing firms. The evidence is consistent with the notion that resource-constrained index mutual funds, however, relinquish their monitoring role to Big 4 auditing firms. The monitoring efforts by index mutual funds have an economic impact additional to that performed by active mutual funds. Our results are robust to controlling for a spurious relation between index mutual fund ownership and financial reporting quality.

Keywords: index mutual fund ownership, corporate governance, fraud, financial reporting, financial reporting aggressiveness, discretionary accruals

Suggested Citation:

Baig, Ahmed and DeLisle, R. Jared and Zaynutdinova, Gulnara R., Index Mutual Fund Ownership and Financial Reporting Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4177104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
A Anderson , P Brockman
An Examination Of 13F Filings
Journal of Financial Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 295 - 324 Posted: 2018
R Anderson
The Usefulness of Accounting and Other Information Disclosed in Corporate Annual Reports to Institutional Investors in Australia
Accounting and Business Research , volume 11 , issue 44 , p. 259 - 265 Posted: 1981
Load more
1 Citations
Amira Hammouda , Asif Saeed , Marta Vidal , Javier Vidal-García
On the Short-Term Persistence of Mutual Fund Performance in Europe
Research in International Business and Finance. Volume 65, April 2023, 101963. · 19 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 354
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
863
RANK
514,796
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies