Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Constitutes Young Auditor Performance

Jurnal Ekonomi dan Manajemen Teknologi, 6(2), 2022, 390-398

9 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2022

Armanto Witjaksono

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: August 9, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to determine the effect of professionalism, experience, and level of education on the performance of young auditors in public accounting offices. The type of data used is primary data by distributing questionnaires to 74 respondents, all of them reside in Jakarta, the Capital of Indonesia. Data were analyzed by multiple linear regression using SPSS version 19. The results of this study indicate that professionalism and experience have a significant effect on young auditor performance, while education level does not affect young auditor performance. Thus, it can be concluded that the higher the professionalism and experience of an auditor, the better the performance, while the higher the level of education is not necessarily the better the performance. This research contribution is for young auditor professionalism and experience is more important than education level. For education institutions, this research suggests them to pay more attention to soft skills (professionalism) besides technical skills. For employers, this research insists during selection to emphasize on professionalism and experience of candidates rather than their educational background.

Keywords: Auditor, Education; Experience; Performance; Professionalism

Suggested Citation:

Witjaksono, Armanto, What Constitutes Young Auditor Performance (August 9, 2022). Jurnal Ekonomi dan Manajemen Teknologi, 6(2), 2022, 390-398, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4186735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
S Alfianto , D Suryandari
The Influence of Professionalism , volume 4 Posted: 2015
T Andika , M Martini
THE Effect of Experience, Professional Competency, Intellectual Competency, and Organizational Commitment on Auditor Performance (Empirical Study of Public Accounting Firms in West Jakarta and South Jakarta)
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 140 Posted: 2017
Igs Ardika , Wirakusuma , Mg
The Effect of Education, Fees, Commitment, and Time Pressure on the Performance of Public Accounting Firm Auditors
E-Journal of Accounting , p. 286 - 316 Posted: 2016
N D Hernanik , Kemalasari , Ap
Auditors Performance Empirical Study of Public Accountants of Malang Region Indonesia
European Journal of Business, Economics and Accountancy , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 43 - 54 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies