Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Audit Quality and Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Stock Price Crash Risk in Pakistan?

13 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2022

AON WAQAS BALOCH

Independent

Date Written: August 26, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the effects of audit quality and international financial reporting standers (IFRS) as mandatory adoption in Pakistan on a firm’s stock price crash risk. This study considers the non-financial firms listed on the Pakistan stock exchange from 2007 to 2019. This study considers audit quality and IFRS as dummy variables and calculates the stock price crash risk with the down and up volatility of the stock. This study finds that there is a significant reduction in stock price crash risk when the sample firms hire the Big-4 audit firms for the auditing of their financial statements. This study finds that mandatory adoption of IFRS significantly reduces the stock price crash risk. This study additionally finds that stock price crash risk has been reduced with a combined effect of audit quality and IFRS adoption in Pakistan. This study motivates firms to adopt the IFRS in their reporting. This study motivates firms to hire Big-4 audit firms for their audit quality. This study captures the agency issues between managers and investors of the sample firms because of their conflict of interest. This study encourages the fair sharing of information to control agency conflicts.

Keywords: Stock Price Crash Risk, Audit Quality, IFRS Adoption, Agency Conflicts, Pakistan

JEL Classification: E30, F30, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

BALOCH, AON WAQAS, How Do Audit Quality and Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Stock Price Crash Risk in Pakistan? (August 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4201468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4201468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A journal of practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
X Chang , S Dasgupta , G Hilary
The effect of auditor quality on financing decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 4 , p. 1085 - 1117 Posted: 2009
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi
Mandatory IFRS reporting around the world: Early evidence on the economic consequences
Journal of accounting research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 1085 - 1142 Posted: 2008
M L Defond , M Hung , S Li , Y Li
Does mandatory IFRS adoption affect crash risk?
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 265 - 299 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
827
RANK
420,621
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies