Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of Audit Fees in the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in the UK: Evidence on the Impact of Risk, Corporate Governance and Auditor Size

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming)

45 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022

Bai XUE

Aston University - Aston Business School

Noel O'Sullivan

Loughborough University - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 6, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the determinants of audit fees for companies listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in the UK - the secondary market of the London Stock Exchange for small and medium sized companies. AIM companies are expected to present different audit pricing challenges compared to fully listed firms. From an audit demand perspective, AIM companies exhibit different risk and governance characteristics while, from a supply perspective, the AIM is characterized by greater auditor choice than typically found in main markets. We find that audit fees in the AIM are negatively influenced by client liquidity and the length of listing. We also find that higher levels of audit committee disclosures are associated with higher fees although there is no evidence that individual audit committee characteristics influence audit fees. After controlling for self-selection bias, we find that big 4 auditors charge higher fees and this premium is especially pronounced for smaller firms. Our findings contribute to the audit pricing literature by illustrating that the determinants of audit fees depends on the institutional setting in which companies operate as well as highlighting the importance of specific risk measures and auditor size in the determination of audit fees for AIM companies.

Keywords: AIM; Audit Fees; Audit Risk; Corporate Governance; Big 4; Audit Committee.

Suggested Citation:

XUE, Bai and O'Sullivan, Noel, The Determinants of Audit Fees in the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in the UK: Evidence on the Impact of Risk, Corporate Governance and Auditor Size (September 6, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4211596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
411,653
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies