Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Counting, Making, and Accounting for Time: A Praxiographic Study of Front-Line Audit Work in Chinese Accountancy Firms

32 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Yanru Zou

University of Glasgow

Alvise Favotto

University of Glasgow

John McKernan

University of Glasgow

Greg Stoner

Glasgow University

Abstract

This praxiographic study pays attention to the work experience of front-line auditors in Chinese accountancy firms. Inspired by Schatzki’s practice theory, we use the concept of “practice” to study overtime audit work: we explore how audit work is carried out in practice, under stringent time constraints and how different ways of doing such work shape auditors’ identities.In line with prior research, our evidence reveals the individualising effects associated with the use of the counting of working hours for assessing and distinguishing auditors in terms of commitment, performance, and career prospects. At the same time, we highlight the significance of paying attention to the ordinary day-to-day practice of auditors, their sayings and doings, as they live with and find relief from the pressures of overtime work and the possibility of burnout. The practices discussed include auditors working together, and supporting one another, within the same space, and their artistic and creative use of local allegories and idioms to build solidarity and create and make time for one another.Overall, our paper suggests avenues for understanding the temporality of audit work beyond clockwise linearity and time records, and sensitive to the lived rhythms of practice. By appreciating the practices of coordination, care, and correspondence between auditors, we offer a more extensive, open-ended interpretation of Foucault’s notion of “technology of the self” in examining how different practices construct auditors’ identities.

Keywords: Time, Practice theory, Chinese accountancy firms, Auditor identity

Suggested Citation:

Zou, Yanru and Favotto, Alvise and McKernan, John and Stoner, Greg, Counting, Making, and Accounting for Time: A Praxiographic Study of Front-Line Audit Work in Chinese Accountancy Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies