Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality in South Korea: The Role of Investor Sentiment and Audit Quality Under Uncertainty

52 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022

Antonios Persakis

University of Thessaly

Georgios D. Kolias

University of Ioannina

Abstract

We investigate whether financial reporting quality is associated with economic policy uncertainty and examine the moderating roles of investor sentiment and audit quality during periods of high uncertainty. This study focuses on firms listed on the Korea Stock Exchange over the period 1995-2021. The empirical result provides supports for the hypothesis suggesting that Korean economic policy uncertainty is positively associated with financial reporting quality, indicating that managers have incentive to reduce earnings management when economic policy uncertainty increases. In addition, the statistical analyses indicate that financial reporting quality is higher during low investor sentiment periods, suggesting that managers have incentives to provide high quality of financial reporting when investors are in bearish sentiment so as to reverse this pessimistic mood. The results of multivariate analysis also suggest that there is positive association between financial reporting quality and audit quality, indicating that firms increase the perceived quality of audits in order to increase the quality of financial reporting during periods of high uncertainty. This research may have implications for regulatory authorities and financial market participants who are working on improving financial reporting quality in their countries on periods of high uncertainty.

Keywords: financial reporting quality, investor sentiment, audit quality, economic policy uncertainty, South Korea

Suggested Citation:

Persakis, Antonios and Kolias, Georgios D., Financial Reporting Quality in South Korea: The Role of Investor Sentiment and Audit Quality Under Uncertainty. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4222192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4222192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
812
RANK
459,276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies