Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Your Audit Team Effectively Multitask? It Might Depend on How They Communicate

Current Issues in Auditing (2022) 16 (2): P17–P23.

Posted: 13 Nov 2022

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Veena L Brown

University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

Juergen Sidgman

University of Alaska Anchorage - College of Business & Public Policy

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

This article summarizes Sidgman, Brown, and Brazel (2021) which demonstrates that, when multitasking, the performance of audit teams communicating in-person is greater than the performance of teams using computer-mediated communication (discussion boards and chatrooms). In the audit setting, multitasking is unavoidable and pervasive; in-person communication is not always an option. To facilitate multitasking, engagement team communications have extended in-person interactions to computer-mediated communication (CMC) technologies. However, little is known about the performance of multitasking teams under these alternative modes of communication (in-person, discussion boards, and chatrooms). Contrary to expectations, we find that participants' familiarity with, and preference for, chatroom features (similar to text messaging) may have offset the benefits previously attributed to discussion boards (similar to email). This finding is timely, given the pandemic-induced environment of remote and hybrid work, as it informs practitioners on audit teams' multitasking effectiveness while using CMC.

Keywords: Audit team performance, chatroom, computer-mediated communication, discussion board, in-person, multitasking

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Brown, Veena L and Sidgman, Juergen, Can Your Audit Team Effectively Multitask? It Might Depend on How They Communicate (September 19, 2022). Current Issues in Auditing (2022) 16 (2): P17–P23., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223860
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
266
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies