Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Similarity-Based Audit Selection: Skipper and Stretcher

30 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Nuriddin Tojiboyev

The College of New Jersey

Alexander Kogan

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Abstract

This paper identifies the importance of introducing similarity metrics to the audit selection procedures and demonstrates how similarity measures can be incorporated into the selection process. Without such features, audit selection procedures would include accounting items that share similar risks. Reviewing multiple items with the same risk profiles might be a suboptimal use of limited audit resources. We propose a "similarity check" during the selection among exceptions to keep their risk profiles diverse. Our algorithms, the Skipper and the Stretcher consider cross similarity and risk scores during selection. The former prioritizes the risk score of exceptions while setting a threshold for cross similarity of selected exceptions. The latter "stretches" the cross dissimilarity of exceptions that are deemed to be risky for a given selection size. We evaluate the algorithms on synthetic and real-life datasets.

Keywords: audit analytics, audit selection, audit exceptions, exception prioritization, similarity, risk score

Suggested Citation:

Tojiboyev, Nuriddin and Kogan, Alexander, Similarity-Based Audit Selection: Skipper and Stretcher. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4226144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
805,836
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies