Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Recalls and Audit Production

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Kevin H. Kim

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Jonathan Nash

University of New Hampshire

Jonghan Park

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics

Date Written: September 22, 2022

Abstract

We examine the impact of product recalls on audit production. Product recalls are events that increase engagement risk associated with greater audit effort, and by extension, greater audit quality. Consistent with this conclusion, we find firm-years with a product recall have a lower likelihood of being subsequently restated and lower levels of accrual error. While a positive association generally exists between audit effort and audit fees, prior literature shows firms experiencing economic stress negotiate lower audit fees and auditors accept lower fees to earn future returns. We expect that to increase the likelihood of retaining a client, auditors will agree to lower fees when the short-term economic stress associated with a recall injects downward pressure into fee negotiations. Supporting this conclusion, we find product recalls are associated with lower audit fees—a relation attributable to differing magnitudes of temporal fee increase. We also show the effects are transitory, the higher levels of audit quality are attributable to specialist audit offices, and the lower levels of fees are attributable to engagements where the client has greater bargaining power. While a positive association typically exists between audit effort and audit fees, our paper identifies a firm-specific event that weakens this relation.

Keywords: product recall; restatements; discretionary accruals; audit fees

JEL Classification: H22, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Kevin and Nash, Jonathan and Park, Jonghan, Product Recalls and Audit Production (September 22, 2022). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
845
RANK
493,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies