Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Duality in Skepticism: Contrasting Judgment and Action

46 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022 Last revised: 5 Aug 2025

Emily Blum

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Richard C. Hatfield

University of Alabama

Date Written: December 15, 2024

Abstract

Professional skepticism is an essential element of a healthy audit. In this study, we present a framework in which the two elements of professional skepticism—skeptical judgment and skeptical action—differ in that skeptical judgment involves paying attention to audit risks, whereas skeptical action often involves overcoming personal risks. This distinction suggests that the optimal conditions for skeptical judgment may differ from the optimal conditions for converting that judgment to skeptical action. Specifically, interventions that promote vigilance will facilitate judgment because they make potential accounting issues salient, but such a focus will also draw attention to potential adverse consequences of taking action. To test this proposition, we conduct two studies in which we align skeptical judgment and skeptical action with two pairs of distinct and contrasting mindsets to operationalize differential vigilance. Our results suggest a duality in skepticism which has important implications for researchers and practitioners designing interventions to improve audit quality.

Keywords: professional skepticism, skeptical judgment, skeptical action, mindset

Suggested Citation:

Blum, Emily and Hatfield, Richard C., Duality in Skepticism: Contrasting Judgment and Action (December 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit Team Time Reporting: An Agency Theory Perspective , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
T D Bauer , S Hillison , M Peecher , B Pomeroy
Revising Audit Plans to Address Fraud Risk: A Case of
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The Effect of the Social Mismatch between Staff Auditors and Client Management on the Collection of Audit Evidence
Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Do Approaching Deadlines Influence Auditors
Materiality Assessments? Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 29 - 48 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
RANK
350,748
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies