Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Pre-Audit Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality on Investor Decision-Making

42 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Bret Sheeley

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Todd A. Thornock

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how nonprofessional investors value perceived variations in audit quality according to their perceptions of audit clients’ pre-audit financial reporting quality. Using dual-processing and source credibility theories, we predict that investors will value higher audit quality more than lower audit quality when they perceive the client has relatively high (but not low) pre-audit financial reporting quality. To test this prediction, we conduct a between-participants experiment in which participants consider investing in a public company representing different combinations of pre-audit financial reporting quality and audit quality. The results support our prediction. A second experiment finds that educating investors about auditors’ involvement in the financial reporting process aligns their judgments with normative models. This study clarifies investors’ audit quality preferences by showing that perceptions of pre-audit financial reporting quality moderate their preferences.

Keywords: pre-audit financial reporting quality, audit quality, investor decision-making

Suggested Citation:

Sheeley, Bret and Thornock, Todd A., The Effect of Pre-Audit Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality on Investor Decision-Making (May 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4228232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4228232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 98 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Is audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG
Steal the Exam' scandal. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
234,221
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies