Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing and Society: Structuration Theory Perspective on Auditor’s Interactions with their Clients

26 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2022

George Baah

Case Western Reserve University, Weatherhead School of Management, Department of Organizational Behavior, Students

Date Written: September 23, 2022

Abstract

Financial statement auditing is an integral part of business reporting. Auditors are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that financial statements conform to GAAP. Users of financial statements argue that auditors bear authority that enable them to collect any evidence that need from the auditee client, yet we do not know the extent of the power relations between auditors and the client. Using Giddens Structuration theory, this study explains the role of auditing in society, the interplay of agency and structure on the building of auditing profession and its norms and the power dynamics between auditors and their auditee client.

Keywords: Auditing, accounting, financial reporting, structuration, power

Suggested Citation:

Baah, George, Auditing and Society: Structuration Theory Perspective on Auditor’s Interactions with their Clients (September 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4228249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4228249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
584
RANK
636,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies