Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characteristics of General Counsel and External Audit Efforts

30 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022

Jae-ik Lee

Yonsei University

Ho-Young Lee

Yonsei University

Seul Gi Oh

Yonsei University

Date Written: September 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze the effect of the presence and characteristics of a general counsel (GC) on external audit efforts. Using data gathered from the annual reports of Korean listed firms, we empirically verify the association between the presence (characteristics) of a GC and audit efforts. We find the presence of a GC is positively associated with audit fees and audit hours, proxies for audit efforts. In addition, the tenure of a GC, lawyer credentials, and the presence of supporting functions are positively associated with audit fees and audit hours suggesting that firms with GCs demand higher audit quality from external auditors to enhance the effectiveness of their internal control system. Various characteristics of a GC have not been examined thoroughly due to data unavailability, regardless of their importance. In this regard, this study fills a gap in the extant literature.

Keywords: General Counsel, External Audit Efforts, Expertise, Supporting Function

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jae-ik and Lee, Ho-Young and Oh, Seul Gi, Characteristics of General Counsel and External Audit Efforts (September 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
592,728
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies