Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time out: Auditor perceptions and audit outcomes when moving away from a time-based budget audit model

Accounting Horizons, volume 38, issue 4, 2024[10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-019]

Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Erin M Hawkins

Clemson University

Andrew H. Newman

University of South Carolina

Jesse C. Robertson

University of North Texas

Chad Stefaniak

University of South Carolina

Jeremy Vinson

Clemson University

Date Written: November 29, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the benefits and costs of an alternative to the traditional time-based budget audit model. We survey auditors who participated in a real-world, firm-designed, non-time-based budget (NTB) model pilot program during which several engagement teams were not provided with a time budget and auditors did not track time. Results suggest auditors appreciated the autonomy the NTB model allows, felt it improved teamwork, reported less concern about performance evaluations, felt empowered to deliver value-added services to the client, and indicated greater work-life balance and job satisfaction. Firm-provided proprietary archival evidence suggests that efficiency did not differ across the two models as the timing of audit procedure signoffs was not negatively impacted under the NTB model. Overall, our results suggest a NTB model may be a viable option for audit firms looking to decrease their reliance on time-based budgeting.

Keywords: Billable Hours, Time Budgets, Auditor Perceptions, Audit Efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Hawkins, Erin M and Newman, Andrew H. and Robertson, Jesse C. and Stefaniak, Chad and Vinson, Jeremy, Time out: Auditor perceptions and audit outcomes when moving away from a time-based budget audit model (November 29, 2023). Accounting Horizons, volume 38, issue 4, 2024[10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-019], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4233485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-019
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
595
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies