Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interplay between Traditional and Big Data Analytic Tools in Financial Audit Procedures

24 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2022

Kotryna Butkė

Kaunas University of Technology

Lina Dagilienė

Kaunas University of Technology

Abstract

This paper aims to explore the impact of Big Data Analytic (BDA) tools on financial audit procedures by modelling and comparing the applications of traditional and BDA tools in financial audit procedures. By using the lens of Dffusion of Innovation Theory and relevant literature review, the paper explains interactions among the BDA tools, their applicability in financial audit procedures. The multiple cases studies from agriculture, retail, and manufacturing have been carried out. The comparison of traditional and BDA tools is evaluated on 5 criterion of effectiveness.Results showed that the explored BDA tools enable to improve productivity and completeness of the financial audit procedures. Comparing to traditional tools, 60% of the BDA tools provide more clarity in the audit results and can be smoothly tracked by repeating the testing process. However, only 20% of BDA tools allow for a comparison of current and past audit data in the applied procedures.This paper contributes to the financial audit literature by explaining how innovative BDA tools might facilitate audit professional judgement when facing uncertainties due to the large amounts of audit client’s structured and unstructured data. More specifically, the study shows, which audit procedures can be performed more effectively by BDA tools: achieving higher productivity, obtaining more detailed results, replicating procedures, and using the available data for subsequent years of audit testing.

Keywords: Big data, Big data analytics, Digitalization, Financial audit, Audit procedures, Evidence Collection

Suggested Citation:

Butkė, Kotryna and Dagilienė, Lina, The Interplay between Traditional and Big Data Analytic Tools in Financial Audit Procedures. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4239405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4239405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
701
RANK
320,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies