Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unique Like Everyone Else: Auditor Herding Behavior in Critical Audit Matter Implementation

51 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2022 Last revised: 21 Jan 2025

Steve Dannemiller

University of Alabama

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Richard W. Houston

University of Alabama

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

We report the results of a field study in which we interviewed and surveyed audit engagement partners about their initial implementation of critical audit matter (CAM) standard AS 3101. We also examined professional and regulatory documentation of the preceding ten-year standard setting process. We identify the activities, factors, and actors involved in the initial CAM decision making. All interviewees reported that they sought to avoid “sticking out”, exhibiting patterns of herding behavior. Our analysis thus applies concepts from herding theory to illustrate the actions that partners perceived as “dangerous” (e.g., reporting excessive or zero CAMs) versus “safe” (e.g., discerning the “right” number of CAMs). We report evidence that the lengthy CAM rulemaking process ultimately resulted in a smooth and benign implementation, rather than the concerns and benefits stakeholders had anticipated, because of the profession’s extensive preparation and herding behavior. We discuss implications for CAMs reporting, future CAMs research and, more broadly, for rulemaking and implementation of new standards.

Keywords: Critical Audit Matters, Herding, Audit Standards, Field Study, Audit Partners, Audit Report, Audit Opinion

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Dannemiller, Steve and Doxey, Marcus M and Hoang, Kris and Houston, Richard W., Unique Like Everyone Else: Auditor Herding Behavior in Critical Audit Matter Implementation (October 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4244294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
RANK
176,143
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies