Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunities for Enhancing Professional Skepticism Prior to Entering the Accounting Profession



60 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022

Allen D. Blay

Florida State University

Bud Fennema

Florida State University

Michelle McAllister

Northern Arizona University

Date Written: September 25, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the development of professional skepticism prior to entrance into the profession and consider opportunities for enhancing professional skepticism at the university-level. In two longitudinal studies, we examine 857 students for several years prior to their entry into their professional careers. We find that students with high levels of trait skepticism are associated with better performance in accounting and auditing courses and better performance on the CPA exam. However, individuals with lower levels of the trait exhibit high perseverance and ultimately pass the CPA exam at rates consistent with high trait skeptics. Audit instruction has a positive and significant influence on trait skepticism scores for individuals with the lowest initial levels of the trait. We find a significant association between trait skepticism and initial risk judgments. Most importantly, we find that audit instruction equalizes these differences by increasing both groups’ risk perceptions. Trait skepticism is not associated with self-selection into the accounting major. Women with increasing levels of trait skepticism self-select into the auditing profession at higher rates than men. 

Keywords: Professional Skepticism; Risk Assessment; Auditor Recruitment, Risk Assessment, Auditor Recruitment

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Blay, Allen Dennis and Fennema, Bud and McAllister, Michelle,
Opportunities for Enhancing Professional Skepticism Prior to Entering the Accounting Profession


(September 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4245915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4245915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
D Barr-Pulliam , J F Brazel , J B Mccallen , K Walker
Data Analytics and Skeptical Actions: The Countervailing Effects of False Positives and Consistent Rewards for Skepticism Posted: 2023
W E Bealing , R L Baker , C J Russo
Personality: What it takes to be an accountant. The Accounting Educators
Journal , volume 16 , p. 119 - 128 Posted: 2006
W Bleidorn , C J Hopwood , R E Lucas
Life Events and Personality Trait Change
Journal of Personality , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 96 Posted: 2018
A D Blay , M G Fennema
Are accountants made or born? An analysis of selfselection into the accounting major and performance in accounting courses and on the CPA exam
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Negin Sharifi Khaksari , Reza Hesarzadeh , Mahmoud Lari Dashtbayaz , Ameneh Bazrafshan , Ali Saeedi
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Professional Scepticism
Australian Accounting Review , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 49 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
386,928
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies