Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Why do Critical Audit Matters Lack Teeth? Insights from Auditors’ Implementation Experiences

64 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2022 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Linette M. Rousseau

University of Houston, Bauer College of Business

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

The PCAOB adopted Critical Audit Matters (CAMs) to meet public demands for informative audit disclosure. However, stakeholders are concerned that CAMs have not achieved this goal. We explore this disconnect by gathering data from 30 highly-experienced auditors and evaluating PCAOB standard-setting documents. We find that auditors and their firms expended considerable resources to develop and implement best practices around CAM reporting. However, overwhelming institutional pressure gave rise to informal ‘rules of thumb’ that prioritize symbolic comfort and technical compliance with the standards over substantive efforts toward engagement-specific reporting. The first rule is don’t be an outlier so auditors defer to the national office to ensure conformity with other engagements’ and other firms’ CAM reporting conventions to avoid PCAOB scrutiny. The second rule is to report the ‘right’ number of CAMs by never reporting zero CAMs and reporting at least one recurring CAM to prevent having zero CAMs in the future. The third is to avoid surprises by communicating with management and the audit committee about potential CAMs early and often. Doing so helps to ensure that CAMS do not contain original information by allowing management to preempt auditor disclosures with their own. Collectively, these rules result in CAMs that fully comply with PCAOB standards but do not provide substantially new or incremental information and instead maintain the status quo.

Keywords: Critical audit matters, expanded audit reporting, audit regulation, key audit matters., comfort theory, institutional theory

JEL Classification: B52, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Rousseau, Linette and Zehms, Karla M.,

Why do Critical Audit Matters Lack Teeth? Insights from Auditors’ Implementation Experiences

(August 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4256853 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4256853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
L Abbott , W L Buslepp
Do critical audit matters provide decision-relevant information to investors? Evidence from merger and acquisition announcements Posted: 2023
I Andreicovici , A Jeny , D Lui
Do firms respond to auditors' red flags? Evidence from the expanded audit report Posted: 2020
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
B Auxier , M Anderson , M Kumar
10 tech-related trends that shaped the decade
Pew Research Center Posted: 2019
Load more
3 Citations
Lin Wang , Yuyan Jia , Tusheng Xiao , Yingmin Yu
Audit-firm serving experience heterogeneity and audit knowledge integration: Evidence from the disclosure of key audit matters
China Journal of Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 100354 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Brooke D. Beyer , Binod Guragai , Eric T. Rapley
Critical Audit Matters: Recurring, Nonrecurring, and Intermittent
Accounting Horizons , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 27 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Linette M. Rousseau , Karla M. Zehms
It's a matter of style: The role of audit firms and audit partners in key audit matter reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 529 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,314
RANK
115,106
3 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies