Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Purposes and Functions of Audit Firms’ Technology-Based Audit Tools

48 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2022 Last revised: 18 Nov 2024

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Nicholas Galunic

Public Company Oversight Board

Matthew Sherwood

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: March 31, 2024

Abstract

Although auditing standards do not mandate the use of technology-based audit tools (TBATs), they have become increasingly prominent. However, only the individual audit firms and their regulators know the quantity, nature, and capabilities of the TBATs available to external audit teams. Employing a qualitative approach, this study addresses the knowledge gap by examining a propriety listing of the TBATs available to the audit engagement teams from eight of the largest U.S. audit firms. Contributing to our understanding of auditors’ prior and planned technology capital investments, we provide the first comprehensive understanding and description of the suite (i.e., toolbox) of available TBATs while also providing a multi-dimensional TBAT framework. Our framework should provide a foundation for regulators and researchers to examine the potential benefits and issues associated with TBATs, enabling more relevant and insightful research in this area. Second, we provide insights into the potential role of TBATs within audit firms’ internal Quality Control systems, shedding light on decision-making during audit engagement execution and TBAT’s role as an implicit quality control mechanism. Finally, we apply the framework to audit firms’ TBATs under development to shed light on the near-term objectives of future TBATs. Our study offers relevant information to regulators and researchers on the current and near-future state of technology tools available to auditors, aiding in deliberations on potential revisions to auditing standards and providing a classification framework for future research. 

Keywords: Audit Technology, Decentralized-Decision Making, Quality Control Systems, PCAOB Inspections, Regulatory Insight

JEL Classification: M42, M48, L51

Suggested Citation:

Boland, Colleen M. and Galunic, Nicholas and Sherwood, Matthew, The Purposes and Functions of Audit Firms’ Technology-Based Audit Tools (March 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4258373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4258373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics journey: interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,516
RANK
155,999
3 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies