Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Critical Audit Matters Influence CFO’s Subsequent Financial Reporting Decisions? The Role of Accountability

Posted: 29 Oct 2022 Last revised: 7 Dec 2022

Hilda E. Carrillo

University of Louisville

Lisa Milici Gaynor

University of South Florida

Andrea Kelton

Middle Tennessee State University

Date Written: October 26, 2022

Abstract

Using actual financial reporting executives (CFOs) as participants, we examine the effects of a CAM disclosure in a prior year on financial reporting decisions in a subsequent year. Standard setters believe that disclosing critical audit matters (CAMs) may influence management’s financial reporting choices. We posit that CAMs may lead to increased investor monitoring, thus increasing management’s perceived accountability for financial reporting quality. We find that a prior year CAM regarding the valuation of property, plant and equipment (PPE) leads to a higher likelihood of impairment of PPE in the subsequent year. Consistent with accountability theory, we find that financial reporting decisions are influenced through a heightened sense of accountability when the investor base is primarily sophisticated. Our study has important implications for financial reporting decisions and the longer-term effects of expanded auditor reporting, which can inform standard setters, financial reporting stakeholders, and future research.

Keywords: Critical audit matters, Investor sophistication, Accountability, Financial reporting executives, Financial reporting decisions, multi-period setting

Suggested Citation:

Carrillo, Hilda and Gaynor, Lisa Milici and Kelton, Andrea, Do Critical Audit Matters Influence CFO’s Subsequent Financial Reporting Decisions? The Role of Accountability (October 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4259540
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
911
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies