Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Auditor Pay Disparity: Evidence from Audit Adjustments

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2022 Last revised: 21 Oct 2023

Lijing Tong

Beijing Jiaotong University

Lu Xie

School of Management, Jinan University

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: July 30, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the relation between auditor pay disparity and audit adjustments, and finds that offices with higher pay disparity are associated with lower magnitudes of audit adjustments. Further analysis suggests that the negative influence on audit adjustment is mainly driven by abnormal pay disparity, and the results are consistent with the view of Equity Theory that pay disparity leads to employees having feelings of resentment and shirking their duties, thereby further harming auditors’ work performance. In additional tests, we find that the association between pay disparity and audit adjustments is more pronounced when auditors bear greater economic pressure in life or when auditors contribute a higher per capita revenue to the office. Moreover, we find that audit offices could relieve the negative effects of pay disparity by providing low-level auditors with higher salary and more opportunities for accumulating human capital. Overall, our study provides important evidence on the role of pay disparity regarding audit outcomes and enriches the literature on auditor compensation.

Keywords: pay disparity, pay dispersion, audit quality, audit adjustment, compensation, equity theory

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M52

Suggested Citation:

Tong, Lijing and Xie, Lu and Zhang, Min, The Dark Side of Auditor Pay Disparity: Evidence from Audit Adjustments (July 30, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4262165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4262165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and un employment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
P D Allison
Measures of inequality
American Sociological Review , volume 8 , p. 65 - 880 Posted: 1978
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accountin g Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
S C Asthana , J P Boone
Abnormal audit fee and audit quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
493,078
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies