Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Costs of Involving New Assets: Cases of Cryptoassets

54 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022 Last revised: 8 Aug 2023

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Yehuda Davis

Yeshiva University - Sy Syms School of Business

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Yue Ma

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Date Written: August 8, 2023

Abstract

With cryptoassets increasingly becoming part of companies’ financial reports, we document what types of firms are involved with such assets and the audit costs they face. We find smaller, less-profitable, international, and restructuring firms tend to get involved with cryptoassets, and a large majority of these involved firms engage with small audit firms. We find audit fees increase for firms involved with cryptoassets, and especially for firms incurring valuation adjustments of cryptoassets, suggesting that accounting treatments of the new assets affect audit effort. We also find auditor turnover, mainly driven by auditor dismissal, increases significantly. The effect is stronger when firms have heavier involvements with cryptoassets and for firms whose auditors have no prior experience auditing cryptoassets, suggesting involving such a new class of assets affects the optimal matching of auditors with clients. Our novel evidence contributes to our understanding of firms’ involvement with cryptoassets—an important, new, and unique class of assets.

Keywords: cryptoassets, cryptocurrency, audit fees, auditor turnover, auditor expertise

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Davis, Yehuda and Huang, Henry and Ma, Yue, Audit Costs of Involving New Assets: Cases of Cryptoassets (August 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4277644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
163,015
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies