Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Firm Change Affect Key Audit Matters (KAM)?

41 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Oct 2025

Charalampos Brilakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 03, 2025

Abstract

Statutory auditors publicly convey their skepticism through Key Audit Matters (KAM) in the audit report. We consider that the number of KAM quantifies this skepticism and therefore we examine the effect of the audit firm change on the number of KAM in the audit report, as an indication of the incoming auditor’s “fresh look” on the company’s financial statements. We sample 830 companies listed across all market segments of the London Stock Exchange (LSE), through the period 2017–2019 that follows the formal adoption of ISA 701 (2,490 company-year observations). We use multivariable panel data analysis to examine the effect of audit firm change on the number of KAM for the entire sample and across each specific market segment: FTSE 100, Main Market excluding FTSE 100 and AIM. We identify a strong positive association between the audit firm change and the number of KAM reported on the rotation year, which, however, does not hold for FTSE 100 companies (that have a more mature corporate environment and where the audit firm changes are lateral among Big 4). Our analysis provides further robust empirical evidence of the relationship between the audit firm change and the number of KAM reported in the post-2016 audit reports. By examining each market segment separately, our empirical finding supports the argument that the change of the audit firm generates a “fresh look” on the company’s financial statements, but only for the non-FTSE 100 LSE companies. This hints that future KAM research should cautiously extrapolate to other market segments past research results that are based on early forms of KAM (such as the Risks of Material Misstatements for LSE premium listing companies), and distinctly consider the company’s mature corporate environment as a KAM-driving factor.

Keywords: Audit Firm Change, Key Audit Matters, Audit Report, London Stock Exchange, ISA 701.

JEL Classification: M41, M42.

Suggested Citation:

Brilakis, Charalampos and Demirakos, Efthimios, Does Audit Firm Change Affect Key Audit Matters (KAM)? (October 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4283710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of Expanded Audit Reports: Evidence from the Justifications of Assessments in France , volume 38 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2019
M.-M Camacho-Miñano , N Muñoz-Izquierdo , M Pincus , P Wellmeyer
Are key audit matter disclosures useful in assessing the financial distress level of a client firm?
The British Accounting Review , volume 56 , issue 2 Posted: 2024
M Cameran , J R Francis , A Marra , A Pettinicchio
Are There Adverse Consequences of Mandatory Auditor Rotation? Evidence from the Italian Experience
A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2015
L Chen , T Xiao , J Zhou
Do auditor changes affect the disclosure of critical audit matters? Evidence from China
Economic Modelling , volume 122 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,048
RANK
214,632
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies