Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Financial Analysts Value Firms with a Going-Concern Audit Opinion?

Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Grigoria Chlomou

Edinburgh Napier University ; Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 25, 2022

Abstract

The primary research purpose of this study is to identify the most popular valuation models that analysts use to derive their target prices for firms with going-concern issues.The study conducts a structured content analysis of both auditors’ and analysts’ reports for a sample of UK-listed firms with going-concern audit opinions in a period that captures the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. The leading EBITDA and EBIT multiples and the DCF model are the most prevalent techniques that analysts use to value UK-listed firms with going-concern audit opinions. In the Real Estate / Energy sectors, analysts use more frequently the NAV method as a basis for their target prices. The study also shows that the pandemic of COVID-19 as well as other firm-specific factors put a substantial number of firms under distress, potentially affecting the auditors’ decision to raise a going-concern flag. Moreover, the study offers evidence that supports the view of analysts’ optimism for firms that are considered financially distressed. The study has important implications for researchers in the fields of market-based accounting research and auditing as it offers empirical evidence of both analysts’ and auditors’ frameworks of analysis.It could also help capital market participants to better understand the valuation practices for financially distressed firms during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first study that examines the analysts’ valuation models for firms with going-concern audit opinions.

Keywords: Going-Concern Audit Opinions, Financially Distressed Firms, Financial Analysts, Equity Valuation Models, COVID-19

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chlomou, Grigoria and Demirakos, Efthimios, How Do Financial Analysts Value Firms with a Going-Concern Audit Opinion? (August 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283768
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies