Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Embracing a Paradoxical Environment to Promote Technological Advancements in Auditing: Perspectives from Auditors in the Field

52 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2022

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Helen L. Brown-Liburd

Rutgers University, Newark - Rutgers Business School - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

Despite the acknowledged power of audit innovations to significantly transform the auditing profession and the significant financial investments that organizations make in audit technologies, professionals are slow to incorporate these technologies fully. Through interviews with 27 internal and external auditors, we present a conceptual model that provides insights into why the auditing profession has been slow to adopt audit technologies. We interpret the interview responses through the lens of paradox theory and find that the auditing environment contains contradicting pressures for change (i.e., pressure to transform audit processes by incorporating audit technologies) and stability (i.e., pressure for audit processes to retain traditional practices). Paradox theory suggests that organizational actors' responses (e.g., embrace or deny) will be driven by how they interpret contradictory pressures. We find evidence that auditor participants demonstrated differential reactions to the stability vs. change paradox. Specifically, we find that when auditor participants use the ‘either/or’ assumption (i.e., responding to only one side of the contradiction) to interpret activities occurring in the auditing environment, they create unintended consequences by reinforcing traditional and outdated audit practices that do not promote change. When our participants use a ‘moderation’ assumption (i.e., fail to identify synergies between the competing demands) to interpret the environment, we find evidence consistent with such behavior inhibiting technological change—resulting in redundant audit tasks that could negatively affect audit quality.

Keywords: Paradox theory, digital transformation, qualitative field study  

Suggested Citation:

Walker, Kimberly and Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Brown-Liburd, Helen L., Embracing a Paradoxical Environment to Promote Technological Advancements in Auditing: Perspectives from Auditors in the Field (November 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
846
RANK
393,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies