Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Less is More: The Effect of Reducing Auditor Liability on Auditor Judgments in Principles-Based and Rules-Based Environments

43 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Linda Quick

East Carolina University

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the joint effects of accounting guidance type (principles-based versus rules-based) and legal liability regime (unlimited versus limited) on auditor decisions. Both the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) believe that moving to more principles-based standards in the United States will allow companies and auditors to more appropriately reflect the economic substance of transactions in the financial statements. However, very little attention has been paid to the possibility that principles-based standards will be applied differently in the United States than in other countries due to a different legal regime. This paper explores how different legal liability regimes impact auditor judgments in principles-based and rules-based environments. Results suggest that auditors’ decisions differ based on the type of accounting guidance, and regulators may want to consider this when evaluating a potential change in standards. In my study, I predict and find that when the economic substance of a transaction suggests that the relatively more aggressive accounting treatment is appropriate, auditors make decisions most consistent with economic substance under a combination of principles-based guidance and limited auditor liability. I also find that auditor participants are more likely to require their client to report more conservatively than they believe the true economic reality of the transaction warrants under rules-based standards than under principles-based standards.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Principles-Based Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Auditor Judgment & Decision Making, Accountability, Legal Regimes

Suggested Citation:

Quick, Linda, When Less is More: The Effect of Reducing Auditor Liability on Auditor Judgments in Principles-Based and Rules-Based Environments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4295591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
697,815
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies