Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tenure, Specialization, Conservatism, and Fees on the Relationship between Going-Concern Opinions and Client Bankruptcy

Accounting and the Public Interest (Forthcoming)

49 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Kam Wah Lai

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: November 28, 2022

Abstract

This paper uses the relationship between a going-concern modified audit opinion and client bankruptcy as an audit quality indicator to investigate factors that could affect audit quality. The setting is important because while stakeholders often view bankruptcies without a preceding going-concern opinion as evidence of impaired auditor independence, there could be various reasons behind them. Using a matched sample of bankrupt and non-bankrupt clients, this paper finds that the relationship is less positive when auditors are non-specialists, allow more income-increasing discretionary accruals, or receive higher audit fees. These results suggest that auditors provide lower audit quality when they lack sufficient industry knowledge, are less conservative, or are more reliant on audit fees.

Keywords: Audit quality; auditor tenure; industry specialization; conservatism; auditors’ fees

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Kam Wah, The Effect of Tenure, Specialization, Conservatism, and Fees on the Relationship between Going-Concern Opinions and Client Bankruptcy (November 28, 2022). Accounting and the Public Interest (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
RANK
490,153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies