Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communication During the Pandemic: Use of Videoconferencing in Audit Committee-Auditor Communication

39 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Meeok Cho

Kyung Hee University

Jaehee Jo

Seoul National University

Tyler Taejin Jung

Hanyang University - School of Business

Natalie Kyung Won Kim

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: May 25, 2022

Abstract

Using Korean listed firms’ mandatory disclosure of the communication method for meetings between the audit committee and auditors from 2019 to 2020, we find that videoconferencing leads to lower audit quality. We find that neither the independence nor the expertise of the audit committee affects the relationship between videoconferencing and audit quality. However, holding more frequent formal audit committee meetings mitigates the negative impact of videoconferencing on audit quality. Overall, our paper sheds light on the types of communication between the audit committee and auditors and contributes to the literature on information processing by audit committee.

Keywords: COVID-19, Audit Committee, Communication, Videoconferencing

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Meeok and Jo, Jaehee and Jung, Tyler Taejin and Kim, Natalie Kyung Won, Communication During the Pandemic: Use of Videoconferencing in Audit Committee-Auditor Communication (May 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4296139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
664
RANK
521,427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies