Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of COVID-19 Lockdown on Audit Fees and Audit Delay: International Evidence

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Vol. 30 No. 4, pp. 526-545

1 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Indrarini Laksmana

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the 2020 COVID-19 lockdown on the audit fees and audit delay of audit client firms located in 52 countries and audit firm offices located in 40 countries. Using archival audit data for a sample of 2,726 US firms and 718 non-US firms from 51 different countries outside the USA and audit firm offices in 40 countries during the fiscal year 2020, the authors find that the COVID-19 lockdown and public health restrictions increase audit fees and audit delay. However, non-US firms experience longer audit delay because of the lockdown than their US counterparts. In addition, longer lockdown and greater restrictions increase the audit fees and audit delay of non-US firms with high audit risk at a greater rate than those of US firms with high audit risk. The results suggest that auditors increase audit fees and have longer audit delay when facing greater COVID-19 restrictions. Increased audit fees and audit delay are likely to result from higher perceived audit risk and, consequently, additional audit effort to design new procedures, train staff to use the new procedures and implement them amid the pandemic restrictions. The impact of COVID lockdown and restrictions on audit fees and audit delay are more pronounced for non-US firms with greater audit risk. The results of this study suggest that audit firms should quickly adapt to the evolving audit, risk and financial landscape created by the pandemic.

Keywords: COVID-19, audit fees, audit delay, lockdown, auditor local office size, client importance

JEL Classification: I18, M42, M4, G01

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Laksmana, Indrarini, The Impact of COVID-19 Lockdown on Audit Fees and Audit Delay: International Evidence (August 5, 2022). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Vol. 30 No. 4, pp. 526-545, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
255,505
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Health eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies