Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Disclosure of Key Audit Matters on Audited Financial Statement Quality and Audit Effort: Evidence from China

52 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 22 Feb 2023

Guoqiang Hu

Tianjin University of Finance & Economics

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Jianxin (Donny) Zhao

Emory University

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

This study examines whether the disclosure of key audit matters (KAMs) in the expanded audit report in China is associated with an increase in audited financial statement quality. Specifically, we predict and find that timeliness of goodwill impairment by Chinese listed firms increased after the disclosure of KAMs related to goodwill. This finding is consistent with theory that suggests auditors have incentives to expend more effort after KAM disclosure in settings where the financial reporting quality environment is weak, such as China. In contrast, we do not find similar increases in goodwill impairment timeliness for Chinese firms that cross list in Hong Kong and for firms in the UK, where the financial reporting quality environment is strong. We also find that auditors’ disclosure of goodwill KAMs in China leads to higher auditor fees, which provides support for increased audit effort being the channel through which audited financial statement quality improves.

Keywords: expanded audit report, key audit matters, timeliness of goodwill impairment, financial reporting quality, audit effort, China

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Guoqiang and Landsman, Wayne R. and Xiao, Jason Zezhong and Zhao, Jianxin (Donny), The Effect of the Disclosure of Key Audit Matters on Audited Financial Statement Quality and Audit Effort: Evidence from China (December 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4300577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,732
RANK
154,771
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies