Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Expectation Gap – Evidence in 21st Century

International Journal of Science and Business, 2(4), 748-756, 2018

9 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Mohammed Moin Uddin Reza

Bangladesh University of Professionals (BUP)

Md. Rezaul Karim

University of Dhaka

Date Written: November 25, 2018

Abstract

Audit expectation gap has always been a captivating literature to study in the accounting and auditing philosophy. The first study on audit expectation gap was carried in 1974 and since then several literatures have been developing to identify the evidence of audit expectation gap in different responsibility centers of auditors proposing how to reduce the gap from different perspectives. As the scope of auditing is kind of defined by definitions, we tend to believe that the expectation gap must be reducing with the adoption of audit knowledge and practices over times which must be working from both the auditors’ and users of financial statements’ end. This paper aims to find out the evidence of audit expectation gap in the literatures concentrating majorly on the 21st century and summarizing the proposals made to reduce the existing expectation gap. Certain research gaps have been traced through the study of literatures which will create further avenues for the researchers of audit expectation gap to work on.

Keywords: Audit, Expectation Gap, Audit Expectation Gap, AEG, Audit Literature

Suggested Citation:

Reza, Mohammed Moin Uddin and Karim, Md. Rezaul, Audit Expectation Gap – Evidence in 21st Century (November 25, 2018). International Journal of Science and Business, 2(4), 748-756, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
683
RANK
576,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies