Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners’ Facial Structure and Audit Quality

47 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ru Gao

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law

Fang Hu

Griffith University - The Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Yi Xiang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: December 15, 2022

Abstract

We hypothesize that an auditor partner’s facial structure (facial width-to-height ratios, fWHR) is a visible ex-ante cue to substantive evaluation of their ethical behaviors and consequential outcomes on audit quality. Using a large pictorial sample of U.S. audit partners from 2016 to 2019, we find that high fWHR is positively associated with various audit quality measures and validate this finding through several robustness checks. Further, the positive association between fWHR and audit quality is more pronounced for small accounting firms, when partners face high competition, and for more complex audit jobs. High-fWHR partners are less likely to compromise their independence for economically important clients and are more likely to become industry experts and charge higher audit fees. Moreover, high-fWHR audit partners can curb high-fWHR CEOs’ aggressive reporting behavior, specifically, lengthening the negotiation process, but leading to low probability of misreporting. Overall, the results suggest that facial appearance can provide rapid attribution of auditor’s professional ethics in terms of their competence, due care, independence, and integrity.

Keywords: facial structure, testosterone, audit efficiency, audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, J24, L84

Suggested Citation:

Clarkson, Peter and Gao, Ru and Hu, Fang and Xiang, Yi, Audit Partners’ Facial Structure and Audit Quality (December 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4304057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
232,542
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies