Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automated Audit Tasks and Auditor Effectiveness

48 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Date Written: June 09, 2025

Abstract

Audit firms increasingly use automated tools and techniques to conduct structured audit tasks. As a result, auditors’ role shifts from preparing workpapers to reviewing and validating the work conducted by the automation. Amid these developments, regulators have expressed concerns that auditors may rely too heavily on automated outputs, which could potentially lead to behavioral biases and reductions in audit effectiveness. Using an experiment with 119 professional auditors, I predict and find that auditors are subject to automation bias – the tendency to use automated cues as a heuristic replacement for vigilant information seeking and processing. Specifically, I find that auditors reduce effort and are less effective in reviewing work conducted by automated tools compared to reviewing identical work conducted by a human colleague. To alleviate the negative effects of automation on reviewer effectiveness, I employ a theory-driven counterarguing mindset intervention. Consistent with my predictions, I find that this intervention alleviates the reductions in effort and effectiveness induced by automation. Additionally, this study also investigates whether the reduction in effectiveness caused by automation spills over to unrelated subsequent tasks, in which no automation is used. The results do not display any spillover effects.

Keywords: Auditing, Automation, Behavioral Mindsets, Perfect Automation Schema

JEL Classification: M42, C91, O33

Suggested Citation:

Peters, Christian P. H., Automated Audit Tasks and Auditor Effectiveness (June 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4309348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
A comprehensive taxonomy of audit task structure, professional rank and decision aids for behavioral research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 11 , p. 51 - 92 Posted: 1999
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The Data Analytics Journey: Interactions Among Auditors, Managers, Regulation, and Technology. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Bloomberg Tax
Big Four Invest Billions in Tech, Reshaping Their Identities Posted: 2020
J E Boritz , T C Stratopoulos
AI and the Accounting Profession: Views from Industry and Academia
Journal of Information Systems , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,817
RANK
106,875
5 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies