Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of COVID-19 Restrictions on Audit Fees and Audit Delay: Evidence from Auditor Local Offices

Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2023 Last revised: 18 Mar 2023

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Indrarini Laksmana

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the impact of COVID-19 public health restrictions on audit fees and audit delay at the auditor local office level. Using the state-by-state lockdown data to measure the degree of public health restrictions in auditor office locations. Using a sample of 2,252 U.S. firms during 2019 and 2020, this study empirically investigates the impact of the length of lockdown in auditors’ office locations on audit fees and audit delay. We also examine whether office-level characteristics (i.e., office size and office-level client importance) moderate the association between the length of statewide lockdown and both audit fees and audit delay. We find that a longer lockdown in auditors’ office locations is associated with higher audit fees and longer audit delay. The increase in audit fees and audit delay due to lockdown is higher for clients of larger local offices than those of smaller offices. In contrast, the positive impact of lockdown on audit fees and audit delay is less for more economically significant clients of an auditor office than that for less significant clients. Smaller clients are more likely to bear the higher cost of audits and experience longer audit delay during the pandemic. Our results indicate that COVID-19 restrictions have forced auditors to change the nature, scope, and timing of their tests, resulting in higher audit fees and longer delays in completing audit engagements. Our study finds evidence of the moderating effect of auditor office size and office-level client importance, providing some insights on how auditor local offices cope with their clients during the COVID-19 restrictions.

Keywords: COVID-19, audit fees, audit delay, lockdown, auditor local office size, client importance

JEL Classification: M42, M40, I18, H75

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Laksmana, Indrarini, The Impact of COVID-19 Restrictions on Audit Fees and Audit Delay: Evidence from Auditor Local Offices (January 22, 2023). Managerial Auditing Journal, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
234,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies