Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Thinking Outside the Box: Improving Audit Outcomes with an Innovation Mindset and Insights Goals

47 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2023 Last revised: 16 Jul 2025

Sara Bibler

VU University Amsterdam - Department of Accounting

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Date Written: July 16, 2025

Abstract

Recent regulatory inspections reveal that auditors continue to struggle with fraud detection, despite its status as a top priority in the profession. Standard setters emphasize that corporate managers often use creativity when committing fraud and suggest that auditors should follow suit. Despite the recommendation for auditors to adopt an innovation (i.e., creative) mindset, its efficacy remains unclear. At the same time, growing client demand for auditors’ provision of value-added client insights has raised concerns about potential unintended consequences for audit quality. Drawing on creativity theory, we argue that combining a client insights goal with an innovation mindset can mitigate potential goal conflict and even amplify auditors’ creativity. We test this prediction experimentally and find that the combination significantly improves auditors’ development of effective fraud procedures and high-quality client insights. These results suggest that an innovation mindset can mitigate adverse effects of the client insights goal and improve auditors’ ability to manage competing demands by enhancing cognitive flexibility. We show that a theory-based innovation mindset along with a client insights goal significantly boosts creativity, enhancing audit outcomes without compromising efficiency.

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bibler, Sara and Carpenter, Tina and Christ, Margaret H. and Gold, Anna,

Thinking Outside the Box: Improving Audit Outcomes with an Innovation Mindset and Insights Goals

(July 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4311283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4311283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
Goal-directed behavior Posted: 2012
O A Acar , M Tarakci , D Van Knippenberg
Creativity and Innovation Under Constraints: A Cross-Disciplinary Integrative Review
Journal of Management , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 96 - 121 Posted: 2019
A Al-Beraidi , T Rickards
Rethinking creativity in the accounting profession: to be professional and creative
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 41 Posted: 2006
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Joseph F. Brazel , Tina Carpenter , Christine Gimbar , J. Gregory Jenkins , Keith Lamar Jones
Recent Research on the Identification, Assessment, and Response to Fraud Risks: Implications for Audit Practice and Topics for Future Research
<a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-004" rel="nofollow">Accounting Horizons, volume 38, issue 3, 2024</a> [10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-004] · 27 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 10 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 542
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Scott A. Emett , Steven E. Kaplan , Elaine G. Mauldin , Jeffrey S. Pickerd
Auditing with data and analytics: External reviewers' judgments of audit quality and effort
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 2314 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
424
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,701
RANK
158,103
2 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies