Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Expanded Auditor Reporting Meaningful? UK Evidence

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2022

Mohamed Elsayed

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Yousry Ahmed

University of Bristol; Zagazig University

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

In 2013, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in the UK mandated independent auditors to provide an expanded audit report to disclose the risks of material misstatement and application of materiality. This paper examines the information content and economic consequences of the expanded auditor’s report and offers three main results. We first investigate the usefulness of auditor reporting regime change and find evidence that the new reporting regime relatively influences market indicators. Second, we document that firms receiving an expanded audit report with a higher level of disclosure on risks of material misstatement (materiality) exhibit significantly higher (lower) idiosyncratic risk, beta, and cost of equity. That is, the expanded auditor’s disclosure meaningfully affects firms’ risk fundamentals. Third, we find that information conveyed by the expanded auditor’s report impacts bid-ask spread, trading volume, volatility of market returns, and analyst forecast dispersion. Collectively, our analyses suggest that auditors provide information that meaningfully reflects the risks that the audited companies face. Furthermore, this information is associated with significant economic consequences for capital market participants, implying that it is not generic. This firm-specific and useful disclosure supports the FRC (followed by International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board) decision mandating the expanded audit report and provides evidence-based insights to major recent structural reforms aiming at proposing remedies to audit and capital market problems in the UK, and beyond.

Keywords: Expanded audit report; Key/Critical audit matters (KAMs/CAMs); Materiality; Cost of capital; Market liquidity; Risk; Textual analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Mohamed and Elshandidy, Tamer and Ahmed, Yousry, Is Expanded Auditor Reporting Meaningful? UK Evidence (January 1, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4311575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
306,268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies