Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nature and Nurture of Financial Reporting Outcomes: Evidence from One Risk-Augmented Audit Fee Model and Two Derived Audit-Effort Proxies

55 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Dong Andrew Li

Christian Brothers University

Abstract

This research quantifies the auditee-auditor contribution split to earnings quality. I disaggregate a cross-section of audit-related risks into the risk of material misstatement (RMM) stock and the rest (e.g., RMM flow, detection risk) to create a risk-augmented audit fee model, incorporating the inverse relation between assessed RMM and detection risk dictated by the classic audit risk model. Immediately, the RMM stock (the rest) explains 39 (40) percent of fee variance. Of the two audit-effort proxies derived, a higher relative audit fee (total audit fee over the RMM stock) increases the likelihood of integrated-audit effectiveness; a higher error term (21 percent of fee variance) does not, given the risk-based audit approach strictly executed. Collectively, engagements delivered with an average relative-audit-fee level have an average 39-40 risk split, suggesting that nature and nurture interact inversely in a cooperative, repeated game, find a middle ground, and contribute approximately half-and-half to financial reporting outcomes.

Keywords: nature and nurture, risk-augmented audit fee model, relative audit fee, inverse relation, risk-based audit approach, partial mediation analysis

Suggested Citation:

Li, Dong Andrew, The Nature and Nurture of Financial Reporting Outcomes: Evidence from One Risk-Augmented Audit Fee Model and Two Derived Audit-Effort Proxies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies