Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Auditors’ and Users’ Materiality Judgments for ESG and Traditional Financial Disclosures: The Roles of Disclosure Form, Valence, and Assurance Level

50 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2022 Last revised: 9 Jan 2024

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Chez Sealy

University of Alabama

Date Written: January 06, 2024

Abstract

As corporate ESG disclosures continue to grow in prominence and regulators begin to require assurance over ESG information, understanding the factors that influence ESG materiality assessments can help auditors provide more effective assurance over ESG information. We use an experiment to compare professional assurance providers’ and users’ materiality assessments of ESG disclosures and traditional financial disclosures. Not only do ESG disclosures serve different informational purposes than financial disclosures, they also include relatively more positive and qualitative information. Our results indicate that the decision context associated with ESG disclosures as well as information valence and form contribute to less effective auditor materiality assessments. Specifically, we document that the auditor-user materiality gap widens for qualitative and positive disclosures of traditional financial information as well as ESG disclosures in general. Additionally, in contrast to users’ normative materiality assessments, we find that auditors view disclosures that receive limited assurance as less material than those that are reasonably assured, which further widens the materiality gap. While current ESG disclosure guidelines focus on topical materiality, this study documents evidence of other important theory-based disclosure features that influence materiality judgments and can be used to improve the dissemination and attestation of ESG disclosures.

Keywords: ESG, Disclosure, Materiality, Audit, Assurance, Investing, Qualitative

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G11, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Doxey, Marcus M and Sealy, Chezham, Comparing Auditors’ and Users’ Materiality Judgments for ESG and Traditional Financial Disclosures: The Roles of Disclosure Form, Valence, and Assurance Level (January 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,641
RANK
122,537
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies