Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Tenure and Cam Disclosure: Initial Evidence from Large Accelerated Filers

51 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Yutao Li

University of Lethbridge

yan luo

San Diego State University

Ye Wang

Toronto Metropolitan University

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate whether auditor tenure affects the number of critical audit matters (CAMs) disclosed by auditors for U.S. large accelerated filers whose fiscal year ends between June 30, 2019 and March 31, 2020. We find that auditor tenure is negatively associated with the total number of CAMs disclosed and the negative relationship is more pronounced for clients that are financially distressed. Our evidence implies that auditors with longer tenure with their clients are less inclined to provide transparent CAM disclosure.

Keywords: critical audit matter, AS 3101, Large Accelerated Filers, PCAOB, Auditor Tenure

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yutao and luo, yan and Wang, Ye, Auditor Tenure and Cam Disclosure: Initial Evidence from Large Accelerated Filers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
598
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies