Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do consulting services affect audit quality? Evidence from the workforce

55 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023 Last revised: 26 Jul 2025

Anastassia Fedyk

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Tatiana Fedyk

University of San Francisco

James Hodson

AI for Good Foundation; Jožef Stefan Institute

Natalya V. Khimich

Drexel University

Date Written: February 23, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates how consulting services affect audit quality, from the perspective of knowledge and expertise sharing between employees. Semi-structured interviews with 16 audit partners reveal that consulting expertise is used in 60%-80% of audit engagements, and that the main rationale for such collaboration is knowledge sharing and improved audit quality. We leverage a comprehensive office-level dataset of employment profiles covering 86% of all employees at large U.S. public accounting firms to systematically investigate the effect of consulting employees on audit quality. We document that a one-standard-deviation increase in the share of consulting employees in an office results in a 2.6 percentage point reduction in restatements (a decrease of 19% relative to the baseline). This effect is strongest when consulting employees have skills complimentary to auditors, such as technical and HR skills, and in cases when consultants have specific-industry expertise in the same industry as the audit client. 

Keywords: Consulting, Employee skills, Skill complementarity, Audit quality

JEL Classification: D22, E24, J24, M42

Suggested Citation:

Fedyk, Anastassia and Fedyk, Tatiana and Hodson, James and Khimich, Natalya V., Do consulting services affect audit quality? Evidence from the workforce (February 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4318287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4318287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
T Babina , A Fedyk , A X He , J Hodson
Firm investments in artificial intelligence technologies and changes in workforce composition. Forthcoming, NBER Volume on Technology, Productivity, and Economy Growth Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,464
RANK
102,586
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies