Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploration of Technological Innovations in the Audit Industry: Disruption Theory Applied to a Regulated Industry

57 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2023

Krista J. Fiolleau

University of Waterloo

Carolyn MacTavish

Wilfrid Laurier University - Department of Business

Errol Osecki

York University, Schulich School of Business, Students

Linda Thorne

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: November 28, 2022

Abstract

Technology innovation is ubiquitous in the audit industry. We adopt Christensen’s (Christensen, Ojomo, and Dillon 2019; Christensen 1997; Bower and Christensen 1995) theory of disruption to provide insight into the implications of technological innovation for the audit industry. Our analysis is based on 27 semi-structured interviews with auditors and audit technological specialists. Consistent with Christensen’s sustaining and efficiency innovations, our findings suggest that technology is primarily being used at this time to respond and to strengthen the audit industry’s ability to serve mainstream clients by providing a ‘higher quality’ audit facilitated by technological integration with their clients’ systems, and by using technology to replace menial tasks that do not require professional judgment. Our respondents indicate that regulatory requirements insulate the audit industry from potentially industry-disrupting new entry allowing audit firms to maintain their high fees instead of passing along the cost savings that result in using technological innovations to their clients. However, our respondents are conscious that the regulatory barrier to disruptive entry may not remain forever since regulators themselves are becoming more comfortable with technology, and the static model of audit as applied to financial information may be usurped by technological advancement. In addition, they identify significant risks and opportunities on the horizon due to technological innovation.

Keywords: auditing; audit quality; disruption theory; regulation; technology innovation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Fiolleau, Krista J. and MacTavish, Carolyn and Osecki, Errol and Thorne, Linda, An Exploration of Technological Innovations in the Audit Industry: Disruption Theory Applied to a Regulated Industry (November 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
560,422
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies