Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cataloguing the Marketplace of Assurance Services

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 43, issue 3, 2024[10.2308/AJPT-2022-196]

Posted: 13 Jan 2023 Last revised: 11 Apr 2025

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Krista J. Fiolleau

University of Waterloo

Bradley Pomeroy

University of Waterloo

Adam Vitalis

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Pei Wang

University of Waterloo

Date Written: July 18, 2023

Abstract

We identify 33 areas where assurance services other than financial statement audits are currently offered or are emerging and conduct an extensive web search to document the contextual features of the services in each area. Using a framework for the expansion of assurance services, we analyze these features by asking: (1) Does the subject matter relate to financial information or controls? (2) Are criteria available to evaluate the subject matter? The answers allow us to categorize each area based on whether it represents an expansion opportunity to a traditional, but hypothetical, CPA firm. We then compare our expectations against observed areas where real-world firms have a presence. Finally, we report on two roundtables with senior assurance leaders to validate our findings and enhance our understanding of what is needed for each area to become, or continue to be, well-positioned for expansion by CPA firms.

Keywords: assurance services, CPA firms, criteria, expansion, roundtables, subject matter, web search

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Tim and Boritz, Efrim and Fiolleau, Krista J. and Pomeroy, Bradley and Vitalis, Adam and Wang, Pei, Cataloguing the Marketplace of Assurance Services (July 18, 2023). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 43, issue 3, 2024[10.2308/AJPT-2022-196], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-196
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies