Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Materiality Thresholds and Audit Quality – Evidence From The Revised ISA 700 in the U.K.

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-166

Accounting Horizons Vol. 37, No. 3, pp. 1-24

70 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Dan Li

Tsinghua University - School of Economics and Management

Na Li

York University, Canada; York University

Muzhi Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

Using a broad sample of U.K. firms that are required to disclose auditor materiality thresholds under the International Standards on Auditing (U.K. and Ireland) 700, we examine whether the auditor materiality threshold is associated with audit quality. We document that a lower materiality threshold is associated with higher audit quality, as measured by lower absolute discretionary accruals, higher accruals quality, and a lower propensity to just meet or beat analysts’ earnings expectations. We also find some evidence that the negative association between the materiality threshold and audit quality is attenuated when the audit committee is more effective and when the auditor is more economically dependent on the client, and the negative association is more pronounced when management has a stronger incentive to manage earnings. Overall, our study extends the limited studies on large-sample archival evidence on the implications of audit materiality thresholds on audit outcomes.

Keywords: Materiality threshold, audit report, audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Beng Wee and Lee, Jimmy and Li, Dan and Li, Na and Li, Na and Wang, Muzhi, Auditor Materiality Thresholds and Audit Quality – Evidence From The Revised ISA 700 in the U.K. (January 13, 2023). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-166, Accounting Horizons Vol. 37, No. 3, pp. 1-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4334886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4334886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
D Amiram , J Chircop , W Landsman , K Peasnell
Mandatorily Disclosed Materiality Thresholds, their Determinants, and their Association with Earnings Multiples Posted: 2017
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
446
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
RANK
148,703
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies