Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Companies’ Auditor Selection Processes: A Framework and Systematic Literature Review

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2023-004]

50 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2023 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

Jonas Vandennieuwenhuysen

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Marie-Laure Vandenhaute

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

Drawing from regulations, practice guidance, and academic research, we develop a framework to understand auditor selection: inputs, process steps (tendering, proposals, presentations, and deliberation and recommendation), and outputs. We use this framework to organize our systematic literature review on companies’ auditor selection process (i.e., the process steps to evaluate prospective external auditors and hire one). Our review focuses on evidence of process steps to identify key actors, activities, decision factors, and expectations during auditor selection. We consider research findings in light of practice guidance. The literature indicates that the selection process consumes substantial resources and is essential to auditor-client matching. Most studies use archival data to infer aspects of the selection process from associations between publicly observable auditor and company characteristics and auditor appointment outcomes. We suggest promising directions for conducting future research with complementary methods. Our review provides valuable insights into companies’ auditor selection practices and auditor-client relationship dynamics.

Keywords: auditor selection, audit tender, auditor hiring, literature review, auditor choice

JEL Classification: G34, M21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Vandennieuwenhuysen, Jonas and Hardies, Kris and Vandenhaute, Marie-Laure and Hoang, Kris, Companies’ Auditor Selection Processes: A Framework and Systematic Literature Review (May 23, 2025). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2023-004], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4344825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2023-004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,410
RANK
178,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies