Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting (too) Close for Comfort: The Auditor Selection Process

Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Jonas Vandennieuwenhuysen

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Marie-Laure Vandenhaute

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Marcel Van Rinsum

RSM Erasmus University

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

Despite the alleged importance of the auditor selection and appointment process in audit quality, few studies have investigated how audited companies select auditors. We conducted semi-structured interviews for six cases of audit firm rotations to investigate how the parties involved manage and perceive the auditor selection process. We interviewed 19 audit partners, audit committee members, and managers in the period right after the final auditor selection. We find that, using the audit comfort framework, the audit committee’s role appears to be less pronounced than prescribed by regulators, with the managers being the actual influencers and the audit committee mainly providing a supervisory role. Managers differentiate auditors on their interpersonal connection with the audit partner and team, using the quantifiable results to rationalize their choices. Our study informs regulators and practitioners on how the auditor selection process is conducted in practice. In addition, our results may be of interest to researchers investigating selection criteria and the involvement of managers and the audit committee in an audit.

Keywords: Auditor selection, audit tender, auditor hiring, auditor choice

Suggested Citation:

Vandennieuwenhuysen, Jonas and Hardies, Kris and Vandenhaute, Marie-Laure and Hoang, Kris and Van Rinsum, Marcel, Getting (too) Close for Comfort: The Auditor Selection Process (January 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357060
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies