Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Characteristics, Career Advancement, and Audit Quality in the USA

Managerial Auditing Journal, 2023, Vol. 38, Issue 4, 389-418

53 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2023 Last revised: 15 Apr 2025

Chen Cai

Lehigh University - College of Business

Stephen John Ciccone

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Huimin Li

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Le Emily Xu

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: December 21, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This study explores the relation among U.S. audit partners’ characteristics, their career advancement, and audit quality.

Design/methodology/approach: This study uses data from PCAOB Form AP and publicly available online data sources. The hand-collected data on audit partners’ personal characteristics include gender, work experience, and educational background. The measures for audit quality include restatements and audit fees.

Findings: The authors find that audit partner characteristics matter for the time it takes an individual to reach partnership after completing a bachelor’s degree. There are significant differences in work experience and educational background between partners in the largest (Big N) audit firms and smaller (non-Big N) audit firms. Audit partner traits are related to audit quality, and the effects differ between Big N and non-Big N partners.

Originality/value: The literature has examined audit partners’ career paths using international data. However, little empirical academic research has examined the career advancement of U.S. audit partners. This study provides initial insights on the career advancement of U.S. partners on a large scale and complements the recent research that examines audit partner characteristics and audit quality in the U.S. market.

Keywords: PCAOB Form AP, Audit Partner Characteristics, Career Advancement, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Chen and Ciccone, Stephen J. and Li, Huimin and Xu, Le Emily, Audit Partner Characteristics, Career Advancement, and Audit Quality in the USA (December 21, 2022). Managerial Auditing Journal, 2023, Vol. 38, Issue 4, 389-418, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4358990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4358990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
963
RANK
317,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies