Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Data Analytics into the Auditing Curriculum: Insights and Perceptions from Early-Career Auditors

forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Education

Posted: 23 Feb 2023 Last revised: 8 Jul 2023

Danielle Booker

Loyola University of Chicago

Josette Pelzer

College of Charleston

Jeremy R. Richardson

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Date Written: May 5, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to help audit educators determine how, where, and to what extent audit data analytics (ADA) should be integrated into existing auditing curriculum to better prepare students for the auditing profession. We interview early-career auditors to understand their experience with ADA and add their perspective to the literature on audit curriculum changes. This group performs many of the tasks where ADA techniques would be applied and can provide valuable insight to audit educators based on their work experience and recent completion of auditing and/or data analytics courses. Responses indicate that early-career auditors rely more routinely on traditional ADA tools (e.g. Excel) and that the use of advanced ADA tools (e.g. Power BI and Alteryx) is relatively limited. Furthermore, firm-provided training on advanced ADA tools focuses on navigating tools rather than interpretation of ADA output. We also find that regardless of the ADA tool used, the skillset used most frequently is interpretation of ADA output to identify anomalies and determine the impact on audit testing, which could be emphasized in existing audit courses. Most participants expressed that rather than removing content from the audit course to make room for data analytics, faculty should integrate ADA within existing content, encouraging audit educators to change how they teach, rather than what they teach. Specifically, faculty can provide hands-on examples of ADA to supplement lectures on existing topics or assign case studies that use ADA tools. These findings have implications for immediate changes to integrate ADA into auditing courses that are more manageable than a complete overhaul of the audit curriculum.

Keywords: audit data analytics, early-career auditors, auditing curricula, qualitative research method

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Booker, Danielle and Pelzer, Josette and Richardson, Jeremy, Integrating Data Analytics into the Auditing Curriculum: Insights and Perceptions from Early-Career Auditors (May 5, 2023). forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Education, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4362640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4362640
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
580
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies