Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Double Materiality Audit: Assurance of ESG Disclosure

30 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2023

Deniz Appelbaum

Montclair State University

Huijue Kelly Duan

Sacred Heart University

Hanxin Hu

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Ting Sun

The College of New Jersey

Date Written: February 22, 2023

Abstract

Auditors must now not only evaluate the accuracy of financial numbers but could soon be required to provide assurance on the information regarding the environmental, social justice, and good governance (ESG) claims made by its clients (SEC 2021; Harrington and Garzon 2022). Double-materiality refers to assessing materiality from two aspects: (1) the extent necessary for an understanding of the company’s financial position; and (2) the environmental, social, and governance impact of the company’s activities on a broad range of stakeholders (European Commission, 2019). For an audit, the two aspects of double-materiality are interconnected, meaning that despite their inherently non-financial nature, ESG factors are closely associated with financial outcomes and potential business risk (Hales 2018). This research provides an understanding for such a “double materiality” audit by first identifying the current issues in ESG disclosures, recognizing the role of external auditors in the ESG disclosure and the interaction between a financial audit and ESG disclosure assurance, and by suggesting an audit analysis roadmap that incorporates both quantitative financial numbers and big ESG data. This paper then proposes an audit approach that incorporates a “double materiality” lens of financial and ESG data to evaluate the risk of material misstatement and the reliability of ESG disclosure. Specifically, it suggests the extended audit procedures for data collection and verification, recommends criterion for the selection of ESG indices, and highlights the ongoing challenges (e.g., audit independence) and opportunities.

Keywords: Double Materiality, ESG Assurance, ESG disclosure, Audit

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Appelbaum, Deniz and Duan, Huijue Kelly and Hu, Hanxin and Sun, Ting, The Double Materiality Audit: Assurance of ESG Disclosure (February 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4367032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4367032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,054
RANK
14,599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies