Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Equalized Leave in Enhancing Audit Quality

42 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2023 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Ryan Ballestero

Kent State University

Date Written: July 21, 2025

Abstract

Large accounting firms invest considerable resources into attracting and retaining employee talent, yet we know little about how specific policy features affect audit outcomes. Economic theory predicts policies that alter firm culture can be more impactful to firm performance. Therefore, I investigate whether one initiative intended to promote an inclusive culture, the adoption of equalized parental leave, results in higher audit quality. Using a difference-in-differences approach I find that audit quality improves after the adoption of equalized leave and show that this is moderated by office-level employee demographics that reflect work-family conflict. I also use hand-collected employee job reviews to show that improved job satisfaction is one mechanism that drives these findings. This study informs academic literature and practitioners on the importance of managing audit firm culture, builds on the broader literature of economic impacts of paid family leave, and highlights one effective talent management strategy.

Keywords: firm culture, audit quality, audit talent, paid family leave

JEL Classification: M41, M42, J32

Suggested Citation:

Ballestero, Ryan, The Role of Equalized Leave in Enhancing Audit Quality (July 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4380770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4380770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
W S Albrecht , S W Brown , D R Field
Towards increased job satisfaction of practicing CPAs
Journal of Accountancy , p. 61 - 66 Posted: 1981-08
E D Almer , J R Cohen , L E Single
Factors affecting the choice to participate in flexible work arrangements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 91 Posted: 2003
E D Almer , S E Kaplan
The effects of flexible work arrangements on stressors, burnout, and behavioral job outcomes in public accounting
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2002
A Firm's System of Quality Control. Quality Control (QC) Section 10 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
RANK
280,691
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies