Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Happens to Partners Who Issue Adverse Internal Control Opinions?

52 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2023 Last revised: 12 Dec 2024

Ashleigh Bakke

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Sam M. Walton College of Business; Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting; University of Kansas

Elizabeth N. Cowle

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: December 12, 2024

Abstract

We investigate how audit firms balance the tension between professional responsibility and client service by examining changes in partner assignments following adverse internal control opinions (ICOs). We find that partners are significantly more likely to be reassigned when they issued an adverse ICO to any of their clients in the previous year. Further, partners issuing adverse ICOs experience unfavorable changes in their client portfolios in the form of lower fees and less prestigious assignments. We find that consequences are more negative when adverse ICOs are issued to clients that are more important to the local office and that there are no consequences when partners issue continuing adverse opinions to clients they have “inherited” from an original adverse ICO partner. We also find that the consequences are stronger for partners of non-Big 4 audit firms that are likely to be more sensitive to client service considerations. The negative portfolio effects we observe persist for at least three years, and our findings are robust to restrictions involving mandatory partner rotation and adverse ICOs that lead to client loss. Overall, our results are consistent with adverse ICO partners experiencing negative consequences as audit firms respond to client service incentives in the area of internal controls over financial reporting.

Keywords: audit partner, internal control, material weakness, adverse internal control opinion

Suggested Citation:

Bakke, Ashleigh and Cowle, Elizabeth N. and Rowe, Stephen P. and Wilkins, Michael S., What Happens to Partners Who Issue Adverse Internal Control Opinions? (December 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4383557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4383557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB Talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The Effects of PCAOB Inspections on Auditor-Client Relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y.-H A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection Process-Preliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
789
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,906
RANK
72,531
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies