Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Audit Quality: Evidence on the Efficacy of Auditing Standard No. 18.

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming)

49 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2023 Last revised: 10 Jul 2023

Anwer S. Ahmed

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Bilal Al Dah

Kean University - School of Accounting & Finance

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Krzysztof Fleszar

American University of Beirut - Olayan School of Business

Date Written: July 3, 2023

Abstract

We provide the first evidence on the efficacy of the new auditing standard AS18 (Related Parties) by investigating its effects on related party transactions (RPT) audit quality. AS18 establishes basic required procedures (rather than suggested procedures) that can assist the auditor in assessing the risk of material misstatements associated with related party transactions (RPTs). We expect it to increase the audit scrutiny over RPTs and thus increase the quality of RPT auditing. We measure audit quality using general restatements and RPT-related restatements. General restatements allow us to draw inferences for RPT relative to non-RPT firms. RPT-related restatements capture the effect of AS18 on RPT auditing more directly. Therefore, the two proxies provide complementary evidence. Using a sample of S&P 1500 firms and data covering the period from 2011 to 2018, we find that RPT firms have a significantly lower likelihood of receiving a general restatement as compared to non-RPT firms after AS18. We also classify RPTs into business RPTs and non-business RPTs based on the type of transactions and the transacting party. We find that business RPT firms are (i) less likely to have general restatements after AS18 relative to non-RPT firms and (ii) less likely to have RPT-related restatements relative to non-business RPT firms. In contrast, non-business RPT firms do not exhibit a significant change in RPT-related restatements or general restatements after AS18. In cross-sectional analysis, we find that the results are driven by non-S&P 500 firms. There are no effects of AS18 on audit quality for S&P 500 firms. This finding suggests that RPT audit quality in larger firms did not significantly increase after AS18, which is consistent with the PCAOB oversight findings that audits of smaller companies are more frequently the subject of inspection findings and enforcement actions that involve RPTs. Our findings are robust to various alternative specifications, research design choices and sampling strategies. Overall, our evidence suggests that AS18 has improved the audit quality of Business RPTs.

Keywords: Auditing standard 18; related party transactions; restatements; audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Anwer S. and Al Dah, Bilal and El-Helaly, Moataz and Fleszar, Krzysztof, Related Party Transactions and Audit Quality: Evidence on the Efficacy of Auditing Standard No. 18. (July 3, 2023). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4394911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4394911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
Accounting and Auditing for Related Party Transactions: A Toolkit for Accountants and Auditors Posted: 2001
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
211,623
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies