Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Facial Traits, Gender, and Career Outcomes

Accounting, Organizations and Society, volume 112, 2024[10.1016/j.aos.2023.101513]

Posted: 12 Apr 2023 Last revised: 25 Feb 2025

Yuzhou Chen

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Chez Sealy

University of Alabama

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Robert Lowell Whited

North Carolina State University

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

A long line of psychology research suggests that people develop underlying behavioral trait expectations based on facial characteristics, and that these appearance-based trait inferences can influence judgments and decisions. In this study, we examine the relation between audit partners’ appearances and their career outcomes. Using independent ratings of audit partners’ facial traits, we find that partners whose appearance violates common gender stereotypes have less prestigious client portfolios. Specifically, we find a negative relation between appearing “competent” and the career outcomes of females and a negative relation between appearing “warm” and the career outcomes of males. Subsequent analyses suggest that these relations are concentrated among non-Big 4 audit partners. We further consider the relation between facial traits and career outcomes and find evidence that males (but not females) whose appearance violates gender stereotypes are less likely to work for Big 4 audit firms. Together, our findings provide insights into the relations between appearance, gender, and career outcomes for public company auditors in the United States.

Keywords: Appearance, Career Outcomes, Audit Partner, Gender, Gender Stereotypes

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yuzhou and Sealy, Chezham and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas and Whited, Robert Lowell, Audit Partner Facial Traits, Gender, and Career Outcomes (September 7, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society, volume 112, 2024[10.1016/j.aos.2023.101513], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4403491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2023.101513
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,004
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies