Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Non-Accounting Related Lawsuits against Audit–Clients on Audit Quality: Distraction Spillover Effects and Distance Dynamics

71 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Stavriana Hadjigavriel

CUNEF University

James C. Hansen

Weber State University Goddard School of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 30, 2023

Abstract

We seek to address a gap in the existing literature by examining a frequently overlooked factor: non-accounting related lawsuits (distraction event) against audit client-firms. We consider these lawsuits as exogenous shock that shifts auditors’ attention towards the sued client to test how non-accounting lawsuits can cause a spillover effect on other non-sued clients that share the same auditor as the sued client. We identify clients as being more prone to be affected by the spillover effects if the client is in a different city (distant) than the audit office city. Using a difference-in-difference design, we show that distant clients experience more restatements and missed internal control weaknesses when the audit office is distracted as compared to same city clients and to the time that the audit office is not distracted. Our results hold for stronger distraction events and for alternative audit quality proxies, such as Type II error and Big R restatements. Results suggest that the negative spillover effects evident in distant clients are directly related to the interaction between the level of distraction of an audit office and the distance of the client’s office from the audit office. Overall, our findings suggest that lawsuits unrelated to accounting have significant implications that extend beyond the firms directly involved in the litigation process. They also inform regulatory bodies about the potential implications of the complementary relationship between distraction and distance.

Keywords: Audit quality, Restatements, Non-accounting lawsuits, Distracted auditors, Distance

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49, K15

Suggested Citation:

Hadjigavriel, Stavriana and Hansen, James C., The Impact of Non-Accounting Related Lawsuits against Audit–Clients on Audit Quality: Distraction Spillover Effects and Distance Dynamics (March 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4404765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
E I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding, and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
S K Asare , G M Trompeter , A M Wright
The effect of accountability and time budgets on auditors' testing strategies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 560 Posted: 2000
K H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Reem Essam Bedeir
The differential impact of distracted auditors in managing portfolio of financially distressed audit clients on audit quality: the role of professional skepticism
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
878
RANK
470,088
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies