Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Racial Segregation and Audit Outcomes

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4407376

38 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2023

Hans Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Felix Vetter

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

We identify endogenously formed same-race audit pairings based on the estimated race of audit partners and auditee executives in the nonprofit sector and show that these pairings occur at a significantly greater than random frequency. Using within auditor-year variation, we find that same-race audits have less frequent going-concern, material non-compliance, and material internal control weakness assessments, particularly for audits performed by auditors located in high residential-racial-segregation areas. The association between auditee financial distress and the issuance of a going-concern opinion is significantly lower in same-race audits, primarily because same-race auditors are less likely to issue a going-concern opinion to a client in financial distress. Overall, these findings suggest that, in same-race audits, lower independence outweighs any reduction in information asymmetry. We suggest that the inability of third parties to explicitly contract over audit outcomes to mitigate agency conflicts explains why our findings differ from findings in other markets.

Keywords: race, ethnicity, audit opinions, audit independence

JEL Classification: J22, J24, J44, K2, L15, L51, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans and Maffett, Mark G. and Vetter, Felix, Racial Segregation and Audit Outcomes (March 1, 2023). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4407376, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4407376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
252,723
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies