Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Political-Economic Impacts on Inception and Operational Effectiveness of an Audit Oversight Body: Case of an Emerging Economy

The Indonesian Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 26,No. 1, Jan 2023 | DOI: 10.33312/ijar.670

42 Pages Posted: 2 May 2023 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Md. Atiqur Rahman

Jahangirnagar University

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Mahfuzul Hoque

University of Dhaka

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze the impacts of the political-economic setup of an emerging economy on audit oversight arrangements introduced due to isomorphic pressure. We adopted a mixture of qualitative research methods for the study. Expert interviews and document analyses were conducted. Structuration theory and, more specifically, the institutional relational dynamics framework proposed by Dillard et al. (2004) have been utilized to understand the phenomenon theoretically. We found that the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) was established in Bangladesh in 2016 within the context attributed to relatively ineffective corporate governance in the face of international and local stakeholder pressures. Financial policymakers responded strategically to the coercive pressure from donor agencies. Deviating from global practice, the majority of government nominees instead of experts have been ensured in FRC. Moreover, instead of reactivating six existing financial regulators, the government buffered the creation of FRC for a decade. Low resources have been endowed, limiting the capacity of FRC to bring about structural changes. In line with the field-level norm, the body has already become dormant and susceptible to politicization. There are few studies on audit oversight arrangements in the least Developed Countries (LDCs). Our paper addresses a unique political-economic setup influencing the effectiveness of oversight bodies. Structuration theory assists us in magnifying the scenario further. The study can determine the actual trajectory of enhancing audit quality through the audit oversight body in LDCs. However, instead of generalizing the finding, this study can be considered a case study as LDCs are unique in various characteristics.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Independent Audit Oversight, Least Developed Countries (LDC), Auditing Regulation, Structuration Theory, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Md. Atiqur and Rajib, Md Salah Uddin and Hoque, Mahfuzul, Understanding the Political-Economic Impacts on Inception and Operational Effectiveness of an Audit Oversight Body: Case of an Emerging Economy (January 1, 2023). The Indonesian Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 26,No. 1, Jan 2023 | DOI: 10.33312/ijar.670, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies