Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Employee Training and Audit Efficiency

Christian Friedrich, W. Robert Knechel, Amin S. Sofla, Victor S. Zuiddam; Client Employee Training and Audit Efficiency. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2023; https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-012

53 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Christian Friedrich

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Amin S. Sofla

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy

Victor S. Zuiddam

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 4, 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether client employee training facilitates a more efficient audit. Our hypothesis is that training improves the ability of the client personnel to process transactions accurately, improve internal control, and contribute to evidence gathering and information sharing in the conduct of the audit. Using a large sample of Belgian private firms with data on employee training, we find that a one standard deviation increase in clients’ training cost (hours) reduces audit fees by approximately 3.4% (1.7%). The effect is stronger for clients with highly educated employees. Using the Belgian labor status reform of 2014 as a natural experiment, we show that improving job security also reduces audit fees and enhances the negative association between training and audit fees. Consistent with higher audit efficiency, we also find a negative association between training and report lags. However, we find no association between training and audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Audit Efficiency, Audit Quality, Employee Training, Financial Reporting, Human Capital

Suggested Citation:

Friedrich, Christian and Knechel, Warren Robert and Salimi Sofla, Amin and Zuiddam, Victor S., Client Employee Training and Audit Efficiency (April 4, 2023). Christian Friedrich, W. Robert Knechel, Amin S. Sofla, Victor S. Zuiddam; Client Employee Training and Audit Efficiency. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2023; https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2022-012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4409363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4409363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
212,384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies