Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Did the COVID-19 Pandemic Affect Audit Fees and Filing Delays?

Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

49 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 16 May 2024

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Mary S. Stone

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the effect of the 2019 Coronavirus pandemic (COVID) on audit fees and filing delays following the pandemic’s onset. Employing location-specific stay-at-home (S@H) mandates to proxy for COVID’s disrupting effects on audits, we fail to find evidence of a change in audit fees in response to initial S@H mandates. However, S@H mandates are associated with an increase in filing delays. We drill down to explore two mechanisms underlying the effect of COVID on filing delays: increased risk of material misstatement and difficulties in audit team coordination. We find that S@H mandates increase filing delays to a greater extent for engagements with high misstatement risk and engagements with high coordination challenges. Our findings are important for understanding the pandemic’s effect on audits and have implications for future audits in regard to audit team coordination.

Keywords: COVID; Stay-at-home Order; Audit Fees; Filing Delays; Risk of Material Misstatement; Audit Team Coordination; Group Audit

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ettredge, Michael L. and Mao, Juan and Stone, Mary S. and Sun, Lili, How Did the COVID-19 Pandemic Affect Audit Fees and Filing Delays? (May 15, 2024). Forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4413002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4413002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
press-release-detail?s=Think-Pandemic-Related-Fraud-Is-Going-Away , p. 3 - 22
Audit Analytics
Impacts of COVID-19 on Public Companies. Available at: www.auditanalytics.com Posted: 2021
E Bartov , Y Konchitchki
SEC filings, regulatory deadlines, and capital market consequences
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 100 - 131 Posted: 2017
T D Bauer , K A Humphreys , K T Trotman
Group judgment and decision making in auditing: Research in the time of COVID-19 and beyond
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 23 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
RANK
202,849
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies