Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Auditor–Client Engagements After the Auditor Is Penalized

54 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Kirill E. Novoselov

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Liansheng Wu

Southern University of Science and Technology

WEI ZHOU

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: April 10, 2023

Abstract

There is mixed evidence in the literature on the effect of audit errors and deficiencies uncovered through regulatory action or private litigation on the auditor’s subsequent engagements. Although audit errors can be indicative of low-quality work, they can also serve as a credible indicator of auditor learning through experimentation (usually referred to as active learning) about the location of the imprecisely defined boundary between acceptable and unacceptable accounting treatments and therefore possessing superior expertise that cannot be acquired through other means. Using unique data available in China, we test the hypotheses derived from the above opposing views and find that our results are more consistent with the active learning explanation. The results show that, after an auditor is penalized for performing supposedly flawed work for a client, the auditor’s other listed clients prepare higher-quality pre-audit financial statements and approve larger audit adjustments, while the auditor expends fewer audit hours and charges lower audit fees. Furthermore, the quality of post-audit financial statements improves. Our results highlight the importance of considering moral hazard and active learning simultaneously when studying auditor–client interactions and support the new explanation we propose for the inconsistent results reported in prior research.

Keywords: Auditor penalty, auditor supervision, active learning, audit effort, audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Novoselov, Kirill E. and Wu, Liansheng and ZHOU, WEI, Changes in Auditor–Client Engagements After the Auditor Is Penalized (April 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4414427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4414427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
592,728
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies