Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Periodic Auditor Designation on Audit Quality: Focusing on the Amount of Conservatism

Journal of Global Business and Trade Vol. 19, No. 2 (April 2023), 63-76

Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Jang-Soon Lee

Independent

Date Written: April 2, 2023

Abstract

Purpose – This purpose of this study is to verify how the periodic auditor designation system, which was implemented in Korea in 2019, affects audit quality using the amount of conservatism.

Design/Methodology/Approach – To establish hypotheses, previous studies were reviewed, and 1,031 samples were selected from KOSPI-listed companies in Korea for 2019 and 2020. The dependent variable was the amount of conservatism; the impact of periodic auditors, Big 4 auditors, debt ratios, total assets, ROA, loss, and audit complexity were empirically analyzed.

Findings – The study found significant differences in audit quality among other variables, and confirmed a statistically significant difference in audit quality based on periodic auditor designation between the Big 4 and Non-Big 4 accounting firms. The study concluded that periodic auditor designation is effective in suppressing opportunistic behavior and enhancing the reliability of financial reporting, ultimately strengthening conservatism.

Research Implications – This study is meaningful in that it targets empirical data from 2019 and 2020 using the amount of conservatism on the effect of periodic auditor designation on audit quality. Since this system was first implemented in Korea in 2019, there are not many related data, so there are limitations in the analysis of related studies.

Keywords: audit quality, big 4 auditor, the amount of conservatism, the periodic auditor designation

JEL Classification: M14, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jang-Soon, The Effect of Periodic Auditor Designation on Audit Quality: Focusing on the Amount of Conservatism (April 2, 2023). Journal of Global Business and Trade Vol. 19, No. 2 (April 2023), 63-76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416729
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies