Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Audit Fee Response to Goodwill Impairment

49 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Natalia M. Mintchik

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: April 10, 2023

Abstract

Our study shows that the audit fee coefficient (AFC) in a regression of audit fee on the accounting balance contains auditor information about audit engagement risk, analogous to the earnings response coefficient (ERC) containing information about financial reporting quality.

We investigate how goodwill-related engagement risk changed following an impairment by examining the change in the goodwill AFC. We find that a goodwill impairment reduces goodwill AFC for U.S. companies post-SFAS-142, consistent with the auditor assessing that goodwill-related engagement risk declined after an impairment. The effect is more pronounced after ASU-2011-08, stronger for non-Big 4 clients, wanes in M&A years and disappears among firms that are either financially distressed or use goodwill impairment as a vehicle for big-bath earnings management. We validate evidence of a decline in engagement risk after an impairment by showing that the positive relation between goodwill and fraud-based financial restatements is weaker after a goodwill impairment.

Our novel AFC approach suggests new opportunities for further refinement of the audit fee model.

Keywords: Engagement risk density; Audit fee-risk coefficient (AFRC); Goodwill impairment; Audit pricing

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Mintchik, Natalia M. and Shi, Linna and Teoh, Siew Hong and Zhou, Nan, The Information Content of Audit Fee Response to Goodwill Impairment (April 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4421300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4421300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
545,548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies