Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Knowledge Based Systems Be Designed to Counteract Deskilling Effects?

56 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Philip A. Collier

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Stewart A. Leech

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Jake Rose

University of Northern Colorado

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

Recent calls in the information systems research community argue that we know intelligent systems deskill users, and future research should focus on how to design systems that do not deskill, rather than continue to examine whether the phenomenon occurs. This should be a wakeup call for public accounting firms focused on implementing restrictive audit support systems, which leads to de-skilling of novice accounting professionals. Our research focuses on redesigning knowledge-based systems to facilitate expertise development and counteract the de-skilling effects that result from use of such systems. Specifically, we manipulate the design of the system interface by providing information cues in a screen format consistent with expert knowledge representations and manipulate automatic provision versus voluntary use of explanations for users during task completion. Results show that after using the knowledge-based system to complete a series of reenacted client engagements over a three-day period, both the interface design manipulation and automatic provision of explanations had a positive effect on novice (1-3 years' experience) accounting professionals’ development of expert-like knowledge structures. The results of the study have important implications for the development of knowledge-based systems intended to support accounting professionals’ (and other knowledge workers’) expertise development processes.

Keywords: Knowledge-Based Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Deskilling, Knowledge Structures, Explanation Systems, Audit Expertise, Audit Support Systems

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M15

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Vicky and Collier, Philip A. and Leech, Stewart A. and Rose, Jacob M and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Can Knowledge Based Systems Be Designed to Counteract Deskilling Effects? (February 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4423869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4423869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies