Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on Auditors’ Legal Liability Cap and Audit Quality

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 10(2), 215-240 (2009)

26 Pages Posted: 4 May 2023 Last revised: 8 May 2023

Fatima Alali

California State University, Fullerton

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The study examines the relationship between auditor legal liability cap and audit quality. Using a matched sample of 298 firm-year observations over the period 2001-2007, I provide evidence that limiting or reducing auditor’s legal liability caps against clients as disclosed in the engagement letters is associated positively and significantly with audit fees, a measure of audit quality. This study also finds that liability firms are either very large or very small in size measured by total assets. Liability firms are less profitable, highly leveraged, audited by Big 4 auditors and are concentrated in the services, manufacturing, computer, and pharmaceutical industries. The results documented herein have important implications in the debate over auditor’s legal liability reforms.

Keywords: auditor, legal, liability

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Alali, Fatima A, Empirical Evidence on Auditors’ Legal Liability Cap and Audit Quality ( 2009). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 10(2), 215-240 (2009), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies