Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Family Firms Less Audit-Risky? Analyzing Audit Fees, Hours and Rates

Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Menachem (Meni) Abudy

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: April 27, 2023

Abstract

We examine differences in audit scope between publicly-listed family and non-family firms in Israel, using a unique dataset that includes external and internal audit hours, audit fees and billing rates. We find that external auditors charge lower average hourly rates for family firms than for non-family firms. However, audit effort, measured as the number of audit hours, is lower in family firms than in non-family firms, but the difference is not statistically significant. Moreover, the number of internal audit hours is smaller, on average, in family firms than in non-family firms. Our findings suggest family ownership affects audit mainly when the family is actively involved in the firm's management. We also examine a subsample of eponymous family firms and obtain similar results. Analysis of a sub-sample of firms that switched from family to non-family status or vice-versa shows that audit fees and hourly rates decrease (increase) when a firm changes its status from non-family (family) to family (non-family) status. Lastly, we find that the reporting quality of family firms is higher than that of non-family firms. Overall, our results suggest that auditors perceive family firms to be less audit-risky.

Keywords: Family Firms, Audit Risk, Audit Hours, Audit Rate, Internal Control.

JEL Classification: G32, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abudy, Menachem (Meni) and Amir, Eli and Shust, Efrat, Are Family Firms Less Audit-Risky? Analyzing Audit Fees, Hours and Rates (April 27, 2023). Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4431114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M Abudy , E Shust
Cost Behavior and Profitability of Family Firms, Working paper Posted: 2022
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
RANK
425,064
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies