Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leadership Style, Knowledge Sharing, and Audit Quality

European Journal of Management and Business Economics, (2023) doi: 10.1108/EJMBE-08-2022-0250

18 Pages Posted: 22 May 2023

Ali Hassanzadeh Mohassel

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Mohammad Ali Bagherpour Velashani

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Date Written: May 8, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
This paper aims to examine how leadership style in audit firms influences audit quality. The paper further explores the mediating role of knowledge sharing in the relationship between leadership style and audit quality.

Design/methodology/approach
The present paper studies the effects of transformational and servant leadership styles on audit quality through knowledge sharing. Data are collected from 396 Iranian external auditors via a questionnaire.

Findings
The results show that both transformational and servant leadership style significantly influence audit quality through knowledge sharing. Moreover, the impact of transformational leadership style is stronger than the impact of servant leadership style.

Originality/value
In audit quality literature, little attention has been devoted to both leadership style and knowledge sharing. This paper develops a parsimonious model which shows how leadership style improves audit quality, and how knowledge sharing strengthens the impact of leadership style on audit quality. The results have important implications particularly for audit industry.

Keywords: Transformational leadership, Servant leadership, Knowledge sharing, Audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Hassanzadeh Mohassel, Ali and Hesarzadeh, Reza and Bagherpour Velashani, Mohammad Ali, Leadership Style, Knowledge Sharing, and Audit Quality (May 8, 2023). European Journal of Management and Business Economics, (2023) doi: 10.1108/EJMBE-08-2022-0250 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4442448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
S Abu-Bader , T V Jones
Statistical mediation analysis using the sobel test and hayes SPSS process macro
International Journal of Quantitative and Qualitative Research Methods , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 61 Posted: 2021
A Abu-Rumman
Transformational leadership and human capital within the disruptive business environment of academia
World Journal on Educational Technology: Current Issues , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 178 - 187 Posted: 2021
F Ahmad , M Karim
Impacts of knowledge sharing: a review and directions for future research
Journal of Workplace Learning , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 207 - 230 Posted: 2019
S S Almuharrami , Abdul Aziz , N A
The influence of leadership styles on service quality within ADNOC company, Abu Dhabi
Journal of Positive School Psychology , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 5115 - 5122 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
644,872
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies