Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Measures in Audit Pricing Studies: The Issue of Mechanical Correlation

Forthcoming: European Accounting Review

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

56 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023 Last revised: 10 May 2023

Marek Kacer

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre (CMRC); Leeds University Business School (LUBS) - Accounting and Finance Division; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Economics in Bratislava

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Michael J. Peel

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Nick Wilson

University of Leeds - Credit Management Research Centre; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: May 4, 2023

Abstract

Mechanical correlation bias is inherent in audit pricing studies when independent variables (X) are derived from firm level audit fees (Y); a form of endogeneity which appears not to have been addressed fully in the extant literature. Such variables are endogenous by construction leading to biased estimates, since (mechanically) X determines Y and Y determines X. After reviewing the extant auditing/accounting literature where mechanical correlation obtains (together with the remedies advocated to alleviate the associated bias), we employ mathematical derivations and simulations to quantify the bias associated with a range of mechanically correlated market competition and industry specialist variables. Since auditor market competition variables are important to regulators and antitrust authorities, we analyse the mechanical correlation issue with regard to an extant study which introduces a novel measure of audit market competition (derived from audit fees). The study provides evidence that smaller incumbent auditors are pressured into offering lower fees when competing against a large local audit firm. However, when the current client’s audit fee is ‘decoupled’ from this new competition measure to mitigate bias, it is statistically insignificant in our multivariate regression analysis. Additionally, we employ auditee sales and total assets to construct proxies for competition variables (which are not mechanically correlated) and find them to be statistically insignificant. We conclude with suggestions of how to address the issue of mechanical correlation in future studies.

Keywords: Audit pricing, Competition measures, Endogeneity, Mechanical correlation, Mathematical coupling, Proxy variables, Simulations.

Suggested Citation:

Kacer, Marek and Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Peel, Michael J. and Wilson, Nicholas, Audit Market Measures in Audit Pricing Studies: The Issue of Mechanical Correlation (May 4, 2023). Forthcoming: European Accounting Review , Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4442764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4442764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
631,616
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies