Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Large Language Models (ChatGPT) in External Audits: Implications and Ethical Considerations

Posted: 23 May 2023 Last revised: 5 Jun 2025

Lazarus Fotoh

Karlstad University - Karlstad University Business School

Tatenda Mugwira

University of Agder

Date Written: May 19, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the potential effects of large language models (LLMs), in particular ChatGPT, on external audits, and its ethical implications. This study employs theoretical methods, drawing on established discussions of the influence of this technology on auditing. This study used prompts to engage with ChatGPT and quotes from audit firms and professional organisations. The discussion of the technology’s benefits is structured around the dynamic capabilities theory, the arguments for future enhancements are rooted in social presence theory, and the ethical implications are discussed in line with the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA). The benefits of ChatGPT include its ability to deliver human-like responses to auditor queries quickly, save time in performing mundane and repetitive tasks that require less judgement, and enable auditors to focus on complex tasks that require judgement. However, concerns have arisen regarding inaccurate responses, the reliability of information sources, hallucinations, negative impacts on auditors’ critical thinking, and limited relevance in the audit process due to restricted data access. Ethical concerns include auditor independence, confidentiality, privacy, accountability, and intellectual property rights. These findings should be relevant to audit regulators, audit firms, and academics.

Keywords: ChatGPT, External audits, Ethical implications, Advantages and disadvantages.

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fotoh, Lazarus and Mugwira, Tatenda, Exploring Large Language Models (ChatGPT) in External Audits: Implications and Ethical Considerations (May 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4453835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4453835
 Not Available for Download
145 References
H Agnew
Auditing: Pitch battle
Financial Times Posted: 2016-05-09
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
D G Altman , J M Bland
Measurement in medicine: the analysis of method comparison studies
Statistician , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 307 - 317 Posted: 1983
Audit Evidence-Specific Considerations for Selected Items
AU-C Section , volume 122 , issue AICPA Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,255
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies