Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What were the effects of the EU audit reform in Austria? An empirical analysis of the Austrian audit market

28 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Sabine Graschitz

Johannes Kepler University Linz; University of Innsbruck

Marcel Steller

University of Innsbruck - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

This replicatory study analyses the effects of the Austrian audit market of public interest entities (PIEs) and investigates the effects of the EU Audit Reform. The reform aimed to increase audit quality, competition, and auditor independence. The analyses comprised 1126 datasets from 102 Austrian PIEs for 2010–2022. It found that the reform led to a slight decrease in market concentration and a significant reduction in PIE auditors. Audit fees showed a significant increase, while non-audit fees decreased, resulting in a declining ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees. Most auditor changes led to engaging a Big4 auditor. The study also identified pricing differences between Big4 and other audit firms. The research indicates that the reform partially achieved its objectives regarding competition and the number of auditors in the Austrian audit market. Overall, the study provides an in-depth analysis of the effects of the EU Audit Reform in Austria, mainly supports the results of Willekens et al. (2019) and contributes to the existing literature on the topic.

Keywords: Audit fees, Austria, EU Audit Reform, market structure, auditor change, Market leader premium, market concentration

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Graschitz, Sabine and Steller, Marcel, What were the effects of the EU audit reform in Austria? An empirical analysis of the Austrian audit market (December 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4461522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4461522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are joint audits associated with higher audit fees?
Eur Acc Rev , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
Apab
APAB Jahresbericht Posted: 2018
APAB Posted: 2018-11-20
Jahresbericht Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
614,410
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies