Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informational Content of Key Audit Matters: Evidence from Using Artificial Intelligence in Textual Analysis

Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Stephan Küster

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Tobias Steindl

University of Regensburg

Max Goettsche

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

This study provides empirical evidence that key audit matters (KAMs) are informative for future negative accounting outcomes. We employ FinBERT—a deep learning model designed for natural language processing that allows human-like text comprehension—to demonstrate that goodwill-related KAMs are predictive of firms’ future impairments. Our findings reveal that utilizing KAMs as a standalone predictor for future impairments provides meaningful predictive power. By exploring the semantic content of reported KAMs, we find that their predictive power is primarily driven by text passages covering how both the firm and the auditor exercise judgment in the accounting and auditing of goodwill. Furthermore, we show that KAMs are incrementally predictive beyond several firm-level determinants and disclosures in annual reports. Finally, our additional analyses indicate that (1) KAM-predicted impairment probabilities are relevant to capital markets, (2) KAMs are useful for predicting the magnitude of goodwill impairments, and (3) the predictive power extends to other KAM topics. Collectively, our findings enhance the understanding of the informational content of KAMs, which is a key rationale for their introduction.

Keywords: audit reporting, key audit matters, prediction, natural language processing, FINBERT, goodwill impairment

JEL Classification: M41, M42, C45, G32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Küster, Stephan and Steindl, Tobias and Goettsche, Max, The Informational Content of Key Audit Matters: Evidence from Using Artificial Intelligence in Textual Analysis (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4464713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4464713
 Not Available for Download
96 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit Reporting: UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , issue 1 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2021
Abdul Majid , J
Reporting incentives, ownership concentration by the largest outside shareholder, and reported goodwill impairment losses
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 199 - 214 Posted: 2015
T Akiba , S Sano , T Yanase , T Ohta , M Koyama
Optuna: A Next-generation Hyperparameter Optimization Framework
Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining , p. 2623 - 2631 Posted: 2019
A Amel-Zadeh , M Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical Goodwill Research: Insights, Issues, and Implications for Standard Setting and Future Research , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies