Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Accounting Standards and Disclosure in Alleviating Corruption: A Cross-country Study

36 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Md. Atiqur Rahman

Jahangirnagar University

Date Written: May 31, 2023

Abstract

This study, relying on the notion of agency theory that the presence of information asymmetry causes higher agency costs, investigates the impact of accounting disclosure and perceived strength of auditing and reporting standards on perceived corruption. Using data for 71 economies for the period 2010-2017 and utilizing Pooled Ordinary Least Square (POLS) and two-step System GMM methods, this study finds that both accounting disclosure and perceived strength of accounting and auditing standards significantly reduce perceived corruption. Moreover, developing/transition and common law countries may benefit more from better accounting disclosure and perceived strong standards, but highly corrupt countries do not benefit from higher disclosure. Additional analysis shows that impact of perceived strong accounting standards on corruption is found non-linear. Audit propensity and quality moderates the relationship between the independent variables and perceived corruption. Mere adoption of accounting/auditing standards cannot cut corruption and perceived standard strength maybe influenced by enforcement levels.

Keywords: Corruption, Accounting Standards, Financial Disclosure, Agency Theory, Generalized Method of Moments, GMM

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Md. Atiqur, The Role of Accounting Standards and Disclosure in Alleviating Corruption: A Cross-country Study (May 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4465512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4465512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
K F Asiedu , E W Deffor
Fighting Corruption by Means of Effective Internal Audit Function: Evidence from the Ghanaian Public Sector
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 99 Posted: 2017
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries, and implications for acceptance of IAS
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
C Baum , M Schaffer , S Stillman
Instrumental variables and GMM: Estimation and testing
Stata Journal , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
P Bowen , P Edwards , K Cattell
Corruption in the South African construction industry: A mixed methods study' in Association of Researchers in Construction Management
Procs 28th Annual ARCOM Conference , p. 521 - 531 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
RANK
464,622
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies