Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stay In Your Own Lane: Navigating the Challenges of Upward Knowledge Sharing in Hierarchical Audit Teams

50 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Miranda Hugie

The University of Georgia

Date Written: June 2, 2023

Abstract

The traditional apprenticeship model, characterized by a top-down flow of knowledge from experienced auditors to their less experienced counterparts, may implicitly discourage upward knowledge sharing. However, in today's technology-focused environment, there is great potential for upward knowledge sharing as audits are increasingly reliant on blending technology knowledge which does not necessarily accrue with auditor tenure and is thus likely held more with junior auditors than supervisor auditors. Through interviews, we explore factors that enhance and inhibit junior auditors' upward knowledge sharing. Using social status theory as a lens for understanding our data, three themes emerge. First, audit quality is enhanced when audit teams blend technology acumen, more prevalent among junior auditors, with senior auditors' deep accounting expertise. Second, there are roadblocks and conflicts that inhibit junior auditors from sharing knowledge upwards. Finally, while roadblocks exist, champions emerge on successful teams to pave the way for upward knowledge sharing ultimately enhancing audit quality.

Keywords: audit teams, knowledge sharing, apprenticeship, apprenticeship norms, hierarchy, interviews

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Tina and Christ, Margaret H. and Hugie, Miranda, Stay In Your Own Lane: Navigating the Challenges of Upward Knowledge Sharing in Hierarchical Audit Teams (June 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4466632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4466632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
F Ahmad , M Karim
Impacts of knowledge sharing: a review and directions for future research
Journal of Workplace Learning , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 207 - 230 Posted: 2019
T Ahrens , J G Dent
Accounting and organizations: Realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational behavior and human decision processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
C Anderson , J A D Hildreth , L Howland
Is the desire for status a fundamental human motive? A review of the empirical literature
Psychological Bulletin , volume 141 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Priya Jindal , Amit Mittal , Piyush Gupta , Rishi Chaudhry
Mediating Role of Psychological Safety on Support at the Workplace and its Association with Organization Performance: Context of Indian IT Sector
The Open Psychology Journal , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,185
RANK
280,691
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies