Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Auditors More Conservative in Their Year of Fate? Evidence from “Zodiac Year” Beliefs in China

Posted: 12 Jun 2023

Weihua Zhang

Beijing Technology and Business University

Caiyue Ouyang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Xin Wang

Beijing Technology and Business University

Wenxia Ge

University of Ottawa

Date Written: June 11, 2023

Abstract

Focusing on superstitious beliefs about bad luck in one’s zodiac year in China, which occurs in a 12-year cycle around a person’s birth year, we examine whether superstitions affect audit outcomes. Based on the personal data of Chinese engagement auditors, we find that those in their zodiac years are more likely to issue modified audit opinions, suggesting that they are more risk averse in their year of fate. Our cross-sectional analyses reveal that the effect of zodiac year beliefs on the likelihood of issuing modified audit opinions is concentrated among clients with high audit risk; that is, firms with higher bankruptcy risk, more internal control weaknesses, and lower institutional ownership, non-state-owned enterprises, and those with clients with low-reputation auditors. We also find that engagement auditors in their zodiac years are associated with greater audit efforts, higher audit fees, and smaller discretionary accruals. Our results highlight the real consequences of zodiac year beliefs on audit outcomes.

Keywords: audit opinion, audit risk, risk aversion, superstition, zodiac year

JEL Classification: D91, G32, M14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Weihua and Ouyang, Caiyue and Wang, Xin and Ge, Wenxia, Are Auditors More Conservative in Their Year of Fate? Evidence from “Zodiac Year” Beliefs in China (June 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4475741
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies