Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Market Characteristics on Auditors’ Reputational Damage Following Negative PCAOB Inspection Reports

50 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: May 30, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates auditors’ reputational damage following unfavorable PCAOB inspection reports. While prior studies reach different conclusions on the usefulness of PCAOB reports based on subsequent changes in auditors’ market share (or lack thereof), we posit that a client’s reaction depends on both the information content of inspection reports and the client’s ability to find a replacement auditor in the local audit market. We find results consistent with this argument. Specifically, when audit market concentration is sufficiently low or when local potential replacement firms are better fits for the client, auditors with more negative inspection outcomes subsequently lose market share―having impaired ability to both attract and retain audit clients―and clients that dismiss their auditor tend to do so in favor of a new auditor with better inspection outcomes. Our results persist when we examine responses to both Parts I and II of the inspection report. Overall, our study helps to reconcile the mixed results in the literature and provides evidence that PCAOB inspection reports can be valuable for signaling audit firm quality. However, whether inspection findings affect auditor-client realignment depends on the local audit market’s supply-demand dynamics.

Keywords: PCAOB, inspection, market concentration

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Guo, Feng and Wilkins, Michael S. and Zhou, Ying, The Effect of Audit Market Characteristics on Auditors’ Reputational Damage Following Negative PCAOB Inspection Reports (May 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4477489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4477489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L Abbott , K Gunny , T Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A Acito , C Hogan , R Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processevidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
312,985
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies