Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Audit Quality with Data Analytics: The Importance of Spatial Abilities and Feedback in Anomaly Identification

24 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023

Becca N. Baaske

The University of Tampa

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 13, 2023

Abstract

Public accounting firms and internal audit departments are implementing data analytics to enhance effectiveness and efficiency; however, there is a shortage of professionals with data analysis skills and the ability to derive meaningful insights. We conducted a quasi-experiment to examine whether and how individuals’ spatial abilities and task property feedback are related to anomaly identification performance. We predict and find that those with higher spatial abilities choose better visualizations and, in turn, are more accurate at anomaly identification. Auditors with low spatial abilities can choose better visualizations and more accurately identify anomalies when they are provided task-property feedback rather than outcome feedback or no feedback. Finally, a combination of high spatial abilities and task property feedback significantly reduces the number of false positive anomalies identified for all auditors. Our findings suggest practitioners should measure spatial abilities and better design feedback to improve audit quality.

Keywords: data analytics, data visualizations, task property feedback, spatial abilities, anomalies

Suggested Citation:

Baaske, Becca and Eulerich, Marc and Wood, David A., Improving Audit Quality with Data Analytics: The Importance of Spatial Abilities and Feedback in Anomaly Identification (June 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4477590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4477590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Abela
Choosing a good chart
The Extreme Presentation ™ Method Available at Posted: 2006
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big Data and Analytics in the Modern Audit Engagement: Research Needs , volume 36 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
A A Austin , T M Carpenter , H Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
S E Bonner
Judgment and decision making in accounting Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
RANK
273,040
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies