Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deep Learning Meets Risk-Based Auditing: A Holistic Framework for Leveraging Foundation and Task-Specific Models in Audit Procedures

82 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2024 Last revised: 14 Apr 2024

Tassilo Lars Föhr

Ulm University

Marco Schreyer

International Computer Science Institute (ICSI); University of St. Gallen

Kevin Moffitt

Rutgers University

Kai-Uwe Marten

Ulm University

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

Deep Learning (DL) is a promising technology for enhancing effectiveness and efficiency in audit procedures. However, due to the complexity of DL, it still lacks widespread adoption in the auditing profession. To solve this problem, this study followed Design Science Research (DSR) to develop a DL Framework. It merged the phases of the Cross Industry Standard Process for Data Mining and the phases of risk-based auditing, giving particular attention to guidance for DL. This led to our central DL Framework which provides detailed application advice on how to augment risk-based auditing with DL. Facing challenges in the realization of our developed DL Framework, we obtained feedback from auditors and computer scientists through focus group discussions and expert interviews, which informed four key implementation requirements for our DL Framework within organizations. Additionally, we assessed the overall usefulness of our DL Framework based on established DSR evaluation criteria to validate its components.

Keywords: Foundation Models, Artificial Intelligence, Auditing, Deep Learning

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Föhr, Tassilo Lars and Schreyer, Marco and Moffitt, Kevin and Marten, Kai-Uwe, Deep Learning Meets Risk-Based Auditing: A Holistic Framework for Leveraging Foundation and Task-Specific Models in Audit Procedures (June 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4488271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4488271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
S M Ali , T Deußer , S Houben , L Hillebrand , T Metzler , R Sifa
Automatic consistency checking of table and text in financial documents
Proceedings of the Northern Lights Deep Learning Workshop , volume 4 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2023
The use of automated tools and techniques in the auditor's risk assessment Posted: 2023-04-22
J Atkinson , M Kande
PwC US makes $1 billion investment to expand and scale AI capabilities Posted: 2023-05-28
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
844
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,546
RANK
66,295
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies