Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Diversity and Career Trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn Data on Race, Ethnicity, and Gender in Auditing 

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 17 Mar 2025

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Eric Krause

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

We use large detailed data on individual auditor employment to examine the antecedents of turnover decisions and subsequent career paths of diverse individuals in public accounting – namely women and racial/ethnic minority groups (Asian, Black, and Hispanic). Despite investments in DEI recruiting by audit firms, we observe a higher likelihood of turnover among diverse auditors. Consistent with the principle of homophily, we find that same-group representation is crucial in retaining diverse auditors. These individuals are less likely to leave when surrounded by peers and leaders of the same group, and are more likely to join an organization with greater same-group representation. We also find that most individuals leave the audit profession, but those who stay longer have higher seniority later in their careers - suggesting that extended tenure could mutually benefit firms and individuals. Our findings offer valuable insight for firms seeking to promote DEI while improving retention rates.

Keywords: diversity, representation, auditor turnover, auditor retention, career paths, Revelio, LinkedIn, DEI, homophily

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, J24, O15

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi and Krause, Eric,

Diversity and Career Trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn Data on Race, Ethnicity, and Gender in Auditing 

(June 22, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4488379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4488379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J Ahn , E Bogdani , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Incumbent Audit Firm Alumni and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2025
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor supply drought: the case of accountant talent shortage and audit outcomes Posted: 2024
D Aobdia , A Srivastava , E Wang
Are Immigrants Complements or Substitutes? Evidence from the Audit Industry
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1997 - 2012 Posted: 2018
A Baker , D F Larcker , C Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Chicago Booth Research Paper , p. 22 - 40 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Aydin Asheghi Oskooee , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
When Auditors Join the PCAOB as Inspectors: Implications for Audit Quality, Effort, and Inspection Outcomes
49 Pages · Posted: 6 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
835
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,938
RANK
67,241
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies