Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners' Cumulative Industry Experience and Audit Quality

56 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023 Last revised: 17 Jun 2025

Naman Desai

Independent

Birendra K. Mishra

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Siddharth Purohit

University College Dublin (UCD) - UCD School of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 17, 2025

Abstract

Prior research suggests that several audit partner characteristics are important drivers of audit quality. However, evidence on whether partner industry expertise improves audit quality is mixed. Using a large dataset of audit partners in India, we employ new partner-level measures of industry expertise – partner industry experience, measured as the cumulative size or number of client firm-years audited by the signing partner in a particular industry over their career – and examine their effect on audit quality. Our analyses indicate that audit partners’ cumulative industry experience is associated with lower discretionary accruals, lower cost of debt, and higher earnings response coefficients for client firms (i.e., higher audit quality). The positive association between audit partners’ industry experience and audit quality is more pronounced in homogeneous industries, where partners’ knowledge is likely more transferable across their within-industry clients. Conversely, the benefits of audit partners’ industry experience weaken after a change in accounting standards, suggesting that partners’ experiential knowledge undergoes a ‘reset’ when a new reporting regime comes into force. Our study suggests that disclosure of partner names, recently implemented in the U.S., can be informative to markets. More broadly, our study provides new evidence on knowledge development in professional services firms such as audit firms. As one of the first studies to use Indian data in auditing research, we believe this data may be fruitful for answering questions that are difficult to address in other settings.

Keywords: auditor expertise, auditor experience, industry expertise, audit partners, audit quality, discretionary accruals, cost of debt, ERCs

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Naman and Mishra, Birendra K. and Purohit, Siddharth and Utke, Steven, Audit Partners' Cumulative Industry Experience and Audit Quality (June 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4493351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4493351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Knowledge creation and transfer in the context of national office consultations: Experiences of audit partners
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , S Siddiqui , A Vinelli
Does engagement partner perceived expertise matter? Evidence from the U.S. operations of the Big 4 audit firms Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,670
RANK
222,859
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies