Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Price Common Ownership?

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (2023), 42(4): 105-129.

2 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 15 Feb 2025

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Chunlai Ye

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi

Lin-Hui Yu

National Taiwan University

Date Written: July 5, 2023

Abstract

Common ownership (i.e., financial institutions’ block holding of stock in industry rivals) and its implications for investors are matters of current interest and debate (SEC 2018). Motivated by this debate and the salience of common ownership, we investigate whether and how auditors price common ownership. Consistent with the notion that common ownership improves monitoring, we find that common ownership is related to lower audit fees (about 6 percent lower). Further, we find that the reduction in audit fees is more pronounced for companies whose common owners (1) have stronger incentives to monitor, and (2) have “scale” in monitoring. Using path analysis we find that common ownership contributes to lower audit fees through improved earnings quality. Collectively, our findings speak to the effect of monitoring mechanisms from common ownership and are of potential interest to investors and the SEC as they attempt to assess the broader implications of common ownership.

Keywords: Common ownership, audit pricing, long-term and transient institutional investors, SEC

JEL Classification: M4; M42

Suggested Citation:

Raman, K. K. and Ye, Chunlai and Yu, Lin-Hui, Do Auditors Price Common Ownership? (July 5, 2023). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (2023), 42(4): 105-129., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4500795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
661
RANK
352,454
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies