Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Exactly Do We Mean by Audit Quality?

16 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023 Last revised: 9 Aug 2023

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Date Written: August 8, 2023

Abstract

The concept of audit quality is of fundamental importance in auditing, but there is little agreement on its definition or measurement. I review several approaches to understanding audit quality and argue that the most meaningful measure is based on what the auditor is legally required to do, which is to opine on the client’s financial statements. This has resulted in a black and white (pass/fail) binary model of the audit report. However, we know there is a continuum of quality in the audited financial statements of clients, and that much of this variation is the result of the client’s accounting policy choices and estimations. Yet most firms receive a standard clean opinion despite the wide variation in financial statement quality. I argue that while it is important for auditors to follow procedural rules (standards) to gather sufficient evidence, it is equally important that auditors carefully monitor and constrain, where necessary, a client’s aggressive accounting policy choices and estimates. The logical consequence is that the quality of audited financial statements and the quality of the audit report are related, and both are continuums, fifty shades of grey. Thus, audit report quality is better understood as a spectrum rather than a binary pass/fail model. Going forward, the challenge is to find ways for an auditor to convey information about the quality of audited earnings that go beyond the binary model of the current audit report.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Report, Earnings Quality, Audit Quality as a Continuum, Earnings Quality is Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R., What Exactly Do We Mean by Audit Quality? (August 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4504980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
Abnormal Fees and Timely Loss Recognition -A Long-Term Perspective
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Audit Analytics
Serving Their Purpose? Insights on Critical + Key Audit Matters Posted: 2021
R Barker , S Penman , T Linsmeier , S Cooper
Moving the Conceptual Framework Forward: Accounting for Uncertainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 322 - 357 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,305
RANK
98,916
5 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies