Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESMA ed evoluzione storica del contenuto delle European Common Enforcement Priorities (The role of ESMA: Analysis of the European Common Enforcement Priorities)

33 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Elena Chiarlone

Independent

Date Written: July 19, 2023

Abstract

Italian Abstract: L’obiettivo dell’elaborato è quello di delineare il ruolo e gli strumenti dell’ESMA analizzando l’evoluzione storica dei contenuti delle European Common Enforcement Priorities emanate dall’ESMA e, soffermandosi sull’Ecep 2022. Per raggiungere l’obiettivo dello studio si procede con un’analisi storica delle Ecep pubblicate dall’ESMA dal 2012 al 2022, concentrandosi sull’ultima emessa e in particolare sulla priorità relativa alla guerra russo-ucraina.

English Abstract: The goal of the paper is to outline the concept of enforcement of accounting standards by analyzing the historical evolution of the contents of the European Common Enforcement Priorities issued by ESMA and, focusing on Ecep 2022. In order to achieve the goal of this study, a historical analysis of the Ecep published by ESMA from 2012 to 2022 was carried out, focusing in particular on the last issue and on the guidance related to the Russian-Ukrainian war.

Note: Downloadable document is in Italian.

Keywords: ESMA, Enforcement, Contabile, European Common Enforcement Priorities

Suggested Citation:

Chiarlone, Elena, ESMA ed evoluzione storica del contenuto delle European Common Enforcement Priorities (The role of ESMA: Analysis of the European Common Enforcement Priorities) (July 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4515141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4515141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
R W Holthausen
Posted: 2009
Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting Outcomes, and Enforcement
A Morais , I Pinto
Does the Level of Enforcement Shape the Complexity in Accounting Standards?
Quagli A. Ramassa P., L'enforcement dell'informativa contabile, G. Giapichelli Editore Posted: 2018
P Ramassa , Franco Angeli
Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
RANK
856,872
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Institutions: European Union eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies