Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inconsistent Responses to Uncooperative Client Manager Behavior: When Auditors’ Judgments and Actions Diverge

51 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2023 Last revised: 7 Apr 2025

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Dan Rimkus

University of Florida

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

Auditors frequently encounter uncooperative clients that make evidence collection more difficult, but prior research points to conflicting perspectives on auditor reactions to this behavior. To add clarity, we conduct four studies. In Study 1, we predict and find that staff auditors increase their skeptical judgments in response to uncooperative clients, but also decrease their skeptical actions, creating an inconsistency that contradicts the audit risk model. We also find that the inconsistency is driven by participant concerns that taking actions against uncooperative clients will induce anxiety. In Study 2, we replicate these results, but also find that the inconsistency is reduced when actions require less interpersonal contact with the uncooperative client. A third experiment (Study 3) and an accompanying survey (Study 4) indicate that client personnel, especially those with more experience, anticipate staff auditor responses to less cooperative behavior and exploit these responses when misreporting or attempting to avoid auditor scrutiny. Altogether, this paper develops theory about inconsistent auditor reactions to uncooperative clients, has methodological implications, and is relevant to practitioners concerned about inconsistency between auditor judgment and action.

Keywords: auditor-client interactions, audit evidence, cooperation, misreporting, skepticism

Suggested Citation:

Ricci, Michael and Rimkus, Dan, Inconsistent Responses to Uncooperative Client Manager Behavior: When Auditors’ Judgments and Actions Diverge (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4531831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4531831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang
How does audit firm emphasis on client relationship quality influence auditors' inferences about and responses to potential persuasion in client communications?
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 87 Posted: 2020
L M Andiola , J C Bedard , J Kremin
Coaching quality and subordinate work attitudes in the multiple supervisor audit context. Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , p. 23 - 46 Posted: 2021
L M Andiola , A G Brink , E Lynch , J L Ferguson
Client Data Files and Auditor Skepticism: How do 'dirty' files influence auditors' skeptical judgments and actions? Working paper Posted: 2019
T Bauer , S M Hillison , A Mokhtar
The influence of client incivility and coping strategies on audit professionals' judgments. Working paper Posted: 2024
Load more
1 Citations
Emily S. Blum , Richard C. Hatfield
Do Apprenticeship Norms Encourage Supervisors’ Audit Quality Enhancing Behaviors?
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 4 , p. 33 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
246,365
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies