Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The influence of client incivility and coping strategies on audit professionals' judgments

47 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2023 Last revised: 11 Apr 2025

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Sean M. Hillison

Virginia Tech

Ala Mokhtar

McMaster University

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Prior research demonstrates that audit professionals encounter client incivility. We extend this research by examining whether client incivility negatively impacts auditors’ judgments and whether any adverse effects are reduced when auditors use coping strategies. We first collect descriptive survey evidence revealing that client incivility toward auditors is more widespread than currently documented. Next, using an experiment, we predict and find that auditors who experience client incivility (versus not) are less likely to challenge aggressive reporting if they are not prompted to cope. We also find that active coping reduces the adverse impact of client incivility, whereas findings for passive coping are inconclusive. Audit standards and users of financial statements expect auditors to fulfill their duty of maintaining a high level of professional skepticism irrespective of external circumstances. Our findings highlight the challenges auditors face in meeting these expectations when facing uncivil clients, thus posing a threat to audit quality.

Keywords: Client incivility, coping strategies, audit professionals, judgment quality, audit quality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Tim and Hillison, Sean and Mokhtar, Ala, The influence of client incivility and coping strategies on audit professionals' judgments (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4542667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4542667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
In the name of the client: The service ethic in two professional services firms
Human Relations , volume 53 , issue 9 , p. 1151 - 1174 Posted: 2000
L M Andersson , C M Pearson
Tit for tat? The spiraling effect of incivility in the workplace
Academy of Management Review , volume 24 , p. 452 - 471 Posted: 1999
K Aquino , S Thau
Workplace victimization: Aggression from the target's perspective
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 717 - 741 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,007
RANK
306,268
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies