Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network Structure and Auditor Compensation: Evidence from a Small World Bipartite Network

39 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023

D. James Zhang

University of Galway - J.E. Cairnes School of Business & Economics

Reggy Hooghiemstra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Floor Rink

University of Groningen

Dennis Veltrop

University of Groningen

Date Written: August 17, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between auditors’ tacit knowledge transfer and auditor compensation. We exploit a unique proprietary sample and employ small-world theory in social network analysis to capture tacit knowledge transfer among individual auditors. Drawing from an audit firm’s full year of personnel records and data on the assignment of individual auditors to audit engagements throughout the year, we find a statistically significant positive association between tacit knowledge transfer and auditor compensation. Furthermore, we find that this positive association is mainly driven by assistants, audit seniors, and audit managers. Finally, we find that auditor performance is likely to be a valid mechanism linking tacit knowledge transfer and auditor compensation for audit seniors and audit managers. Overall, our results suggest that the social capital embedded within knowledge networks plays an important role in auditor compensation.

Keywords: Auditor Compensation; Tacit Knowledge Transfer; Small World Network; Auditor Performance; Social Network Analysis

JEL Classification: M42, M41, D83, J31

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, James and Hooghiemstra, Reggy and Rink, Floor and Veltrop, Dennis, Network Structure and Auditor Compensation: Evidence from a Small World Bipartite Network (August 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4543919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4543919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
RANK
601,250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies