Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of US Audit Standards and Practice for Foreign Jurisdictions: Evidence from the Staggered Adoption of Expanded Audit Reporting

61 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2023 Last revised: 31 Mar 2024

Eric Lohwasser

Colorado State University, Fort Collins

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Linette M. Rousseau

University of Houston, Bauer College of Business

Date Written: August 23, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the consequences of US audit standards and practice for foreign jurisdictions by leveraging the identification advantages of the expanded audit reporting setting. We investigate whether the commencement of PCAOB critical audit matters (CAMs) in 2019 influenced European auditors, who reported under the broader IAASB key audit matter (KAM) standard for several years. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that European auditors issue fewer KAMs that are less understandable and more generic after the commencement of CAM reporting, consistent with US standards and practice imposing negative externalities on European KAMs. In additional tests, we find that the commencement of PCAOB CAMs is associated with a reduction in both entity-level and account-level KAM topics and influences the tone of European KAM disclosures. These findings illuminate the consequences of staggered adoption of non-convergent standards and inform the debate about improving US CAM reporting.

Keywords: critical audit matters, audit regulation, expanded audit reports, cross-listed companies, audit standard-setting, key audit matters

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M49; P50

Suggested Citation:

Lohwasser, Eric and Rapley, Eric T. and Rousseau, Linette, Consequences of US Audit Standards and Practice for Foreign Jurisdictions: Evidence from the Staggered Adoption of Expanded Audit Reporting (August 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4549979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4549979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
2 Citations
Nian Lim (Vic) Lee , Mohamed Sami Khalaf , Magdy Farag , Mohamed Gomaa
The impact of critical audit matters on audit report lag and audit fees: evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2024
Crossref
Linette M. Rousseau , Karla M. Zehms
It's a matter of style: The role of audit firms and audit partners in key audit matter reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 529 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,699
RANK
194,576
2 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies