Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Understand the Implications of ESG Issues for Their Audits? Evidence From Financially Material Negative ESG Incidents

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

67 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023 Last revised: 24 Jan 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: August 23, 2023

Abstract

We exploit a unique dataset to examine how effectively auditors integrate financially material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues into their audits, particularly following the introduction of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) frameworks, which highlighted the link between ESG and clients’ internal control over financial reporting (ICFR). We find that auditors tend to exhibit excessive optimism when evaluating ICFR effectiveness in the presence of material ESG incidents. Specifically, auditors often fail to detect material weaknesses in ICFR when clients experience negative ESG incidents, which leads clients to restate their financial statements. These results are driven by the post-SASB and 2013 COSO period, and are the strongest when ESG incidents are severe, illegal, repetitive, and occur well before the fiscal year-end. Furthermore, the results are amplified when client firms are perceived to have strong ESG expertise and auditors face business growth pressure and heightened competition. Overall, audit firms do not seem to fully understand the implications of material ESG issues from an ICFR standpoint and make incorrect assessments.

Keywords: Audit; ESG; Auditor; ICFR; ESG Risk

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Yoon, Aaron, Do Auditors Understand the Implications of ESG Issues for Their Audits? Evidence From Financially Material Negative ESG Incidents (August 23, 2023). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4549088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4549088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Ruby Lee , Mark Zakota
Lenders’ Environmental Monitoring: Evidence From Environmental Covenants in Private Loan Contracts
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Posted: 2024
Crossref
Konstantin Kühle , Reiner Quick
The impact of corporate governance statement assurance on financial professionals’ decisions
Accounting in Europe , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 18 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,003
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,383
RANK
52,362
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies