Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
High-Quality Auditor Presence and Informational Influence: Evidence from Firm Investment Decisions

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Aug 2023

Xudong (Daniel) Li

Monmouth University - Department of Accounting

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 24, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the presence of high-quality auditors (Big 4 or industry specialist auditors (ISA)) in an industry facilitates accounting information transfer among industry peers and enhances investment decisions of firms not audited by high-quality auditors (non-Big4-ISA client firms). Consistent with the prediction of informational influence theories, we find that non-Big4-ISA client firms that belong to an industry with a greater presence of high- quality auditors are associated with lower investment inefficiency. The effect is more pronounced for firms with less precise private information. Path analysis shows that the association between high-quality auditor presence and learning firms’ investment inefficiency is explained via a direct path of source credibility and an indirect path mediated by peer firms' accounting information quality. Finally, we find that firms in industries with larger reductions in Big 4 presence following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 incur more investment inefficiency.

Keywords: High-quality Auditor Presence; Accounting Information Quality; Source Credibility; Investment Efficiency; Information Uncertainty; Informational Influence; Information Adoption

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xudong (Daniel) and Sun, Lili, High-Quality Auditor Presence and Informational Influence: Evidence from Firm Investment Decisions (August 24, 2023). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4551285
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies