Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of Caring More About the Distant Future: Evidence From Cross-country Variations in Languages and Auditing Fees

65 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023

Michael Machokoto

University of the Witwatersrand; African Development Bank Group (AfDB)

Marvelous Kadzima

University of Cape Town

Akios Majoni

University of Cape Town (UCT) - Department of Finance and Tax

Eddie Chamisa

University of Cape Town - Department of Finance and Tax

Date Written: August 26, 2023

Abstract

Cultural linguists have long theorised that the way languages are structured and their meanings can affect how speakers behave, make decisions, and plan for the future. In this study, we test this proposition and find that the strength of the future time reference of languages (FTR strength) is associated with cross-country variations in external audit pricing. Specifically, we find that firms operating in countries where future time orientation is emphasized less (weak-FTR) tend to pay more for external audit services. This finding aligns with the narrative that speakers of languages with a weaker future time orientation tend to place greater importance on the future and its consequences. Further, difference-indifferences analyses confirm this finding, as FTR strength moderates the changes in external audit fees during the financial crisis, post-IFRS adoption, and post-mandatory board and non-board reforms. Additionally, FTR strength mediates the positive association between firm performance and external audit fees. Our findings are robust to several concerns and suggest that FTR strength is a distinct informal institutional factor that, although overlooked, significantly influences external audit pricing.

Keywords: Languages, audit fees, firm value, IFRS, board and non-board reforms, financial crisis

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Machokoto, Michael and Kadzima, Marvelous and Majoni, Akios and Chamisa, Edward Elae, The Price of Caring More About the Distant Future: Evidence From Cross-country Variations in Languages and Auditing Fees (August 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4553084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4553084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
RANK
697,815
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies