Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Much Ado About Nothing? Overreaction to Random Regulatory Audits

64 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 18 Mar 2025

Samuel Antill

Harvard Business School

Joseph Kalmenovitz

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

Regulators often audit firms to detect noncompliance. Exploiting a natural experiment in the lobbying industry, we show that firms overreact to audits and this response distorts prices and reduces welfare. Each year, federal regulators audit a random sample of firm-client pairs. Following an audit, we find that audited clients are more likely to retain the audited lobbying firm, and they pay a lower price for the same services. Estimating a dynamic structural model with our natural experiment, we show that this pattern is driven by overreaction: clients are almost indifferent to audits, but lobbying firms mistakenly believe their clients view audits as extremely negative events. Therefore, lobbyists offer unnecessary price discounts to retain audited clients. In a counterfactual world with no overreaction, we estimate that price corrections and better client-firm matching quality would increase welfare by 6.4%. Our results are the first to document an unintended distortive effect of regulation on prices and matching, even among firms that fully comply with all rules and regulations.

Keywords: Audit, overreaction, structural estimation, lobbying, economics of regulations

Suggested Citation:

Antill, Samuel and Kalmenovitz, Joseph, Much Ado About Nothing? Overreaction to Random Regulatory Audits (August 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
O Al-Ubaydli , P A Mclaughlin
Regdata: A numerical database on industryspecific regulations for all united states industries and federal regulations, 1997-2012
Regulation & Governance , volume 11 , p. 109 - 123 Posted: 2017
S Antill
Do the right firms survive bankruptcy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 523 - 546 Posted: 2022
Are bankruptcy professional fees excessively high?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 3595 - 3647 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,750
RANK
269,867
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies