Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shariah Audit of Islamic Banks in Bangladesh: the Present Practice and the Way Forward

Alam, M.K., Ahmad, A.U.F., Ahmed, M.U. and Uddin, M.S. (2023). Sharīʿah audit of Islamic banks in Bangladesh: The present practice and the way forward. Journal of Applied Accounting Research (JAAR). Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, UK. DOI: https://doi.org

Posted: 22 Sep 2023 Last revised: 24 Sep 2023

Abu Umar Faruq Ahmad

United International University; Islamic Economics Institute; Universiti Brunei Darussalam; INCEIF University; Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart University; Islamic Cooperative Finance Australia Ltd; Guidance College; Institute of Policy Studies, Universiti Brunei Darussalam; International Shariah Research Academy for Islamic Finance

Date Written: March 22, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
The study explores the existing Shariah audit practice of Islamic banks (IBs) in Bangladesh aiming at providing suggestions for improvements on the detected shortfalls in the relevant areas.

Design/methodology/approach
This research applied a qualitative method, and data were collected through conducting semi-structured interviews in Bangladesh. A total of 17 interviews were conducted for accomplishing the research objectives.

Findings
The study finds that there is no comprehensive Shariah audit manual in the current operation for IBs in Bangladesh, and as such, the requirements of their Shariah compliance remain a big question. Although the Shariah audit is conducted within IBs, and the Shariah audit officers or Shariah officers inspect necessary documents while conducting the Shariah audit, they only cover 10–20% of total investments and transactions. Based on the findings of this study, it is recommended that the Shariah auditing tasks should broadly cover at least 80% of the investment portfolios, documents and financial contracts and activities.

Research limitations/implications
The findings of this research are expected to significantly contribute to the regulatory authorities concerned in Bangladesh and beyond, which include the suggestions that IBs can adopt to strengthen their Shariah governance system. The study also pinpoints that in the current system, Shariah auditors' roles are somehow limited in examining and checking the investment sides with a minimal portion (10–20%), for which they are unable to perform their responsibilities in a befitting manner to provide assurance services and overall Shariah compliance of IBs activities.

Practical implications
This study explores the current Shariah audit systems and provides recommendations to improve the existing systems which will be beneficial for Islamic banks of Bangladesh.

Originality/value
To the researchers' knowledge, perhaps this is the first research of its kind which seeks to explore the current Shariah audit practice in Bangladesh qualitatively, and it provides some practical suggestions for making the necessary developments of the current audit process of IBs. In addition, there are no empirical studies in the entire Emerald insight publishers and Scopus database regarding Shariah audit practices. The study contributes to the agency, stakeholder and legitimacy theories by exploring the Shariah audit of IBs.

Keywords: Shariah governance, Shariah audit, Islamic banks, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G18, G21, G28, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Prof Abu Umar Faruq, Shariah Audit of Islamic Banks in Bangladesh: the Present Practice and the Way Forward (March 22, 2023). Alam, M.K., Ahmad, A.U.F., Ahmed, M.U. and Uddin, M.S. (2023). Sharīʿah audit of Islamic banks in Bangladesh: The present practice and the way forward. Journal of Applied Accounting Research (JAAR). Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, UK. DOI: https://doi.org, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557629
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies