Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Assessment of Whether the European Fee Cap for Non-Audit Services is Appropriate for the United States

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper

46 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Edward B. Douthett

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Claus Holm

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business

Abstract

We examine whether the European cap on non-audit fees is appropriate for US capital markets and find the incentive for fee dependency is higher and audit quality is lower when the non-audit fee ratio exceeds the 70 percent cap stipulated by the European regulation.  We also find that the rate of change increases as the non-audit fee ratio approaches 100%.  The parameter estimates indicate the European regulation may reduce many of the fee-dependency concerns in the US, but not entirely.  A lower cap, or stricter ban on non-audit services may be needed to further eliminate those concerns.

Keywords: capital market reform, non-audit services, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Douthett, Edward B. and Holm, Claus, An Empirical Assessment of Whether the European Fee Cap for Non-Audit Services is Appropriate for the United States. George Mason University School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4559094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4559094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
915,095
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies