Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Inspections on Audit Fees

Pacific Accounting Review. DOI: 10.1108/PAR-02-2023-0017.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 5 Sep 2023

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Elizabeth Rainsbury

UNITEC Institute of Technology

Debbie Van Dyk

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this study is to examine the cost of the introduction of independent audit inspections in New Zealand.

Design/methodology/approach
The research is conducted using audit fee data from New Zealand and examines the overall impact of the reforms on the cost imposed on auditees.

Findings
The findings show that there was no general increase in audit fees but a significant increase in audit fees for small listed companies compared to audit fees for unlisted companies and large listed companies.

Practical implications
The practical implications of this study suggest that the introduction of independent inspections led to increased costs for some clients, particularly smaller listed companies, and that audit firms were able to pass on these costs to their clients. These results have important implications for policymakers and auditors alike.

Originality/value
This study provides new insights into the cost of the introduction of independent audit inspections, which have been the subject of ongoing criticisms and recommendations for improvement.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-02-2023-0017

Keywords: Auditing, Audit fees, Regulation, Inspection, New Zealand, Financial markets authority

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Rainsbury, Elizabeth and Van Dyk, Debbie, The Effect of Audit Inspections on Audit Fees ( 2023). Pacific Accounting Review. DOI: 10.1108/PAR-02-2023-0017., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560305
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies