Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Lead Auditor Instructions Influence Component Auditors’ Evidence Collection Decisions? The Joint Influence of Construal Interpretations and Responsibility

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Skye Zhu

James Cook University

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

Regulators have raised concerns about the quality of component auditors’ work. Of particular concern is that component auditors often do not adequately perform procedures and gather enough quality evidence. This failure is likely caused by component auditors’ different interpretations of lead auditor instructions and by their lack of responsibility. Our interview findings suggest that component auditors tend to interpret lead auditor instructions concretely because they often receive detailed, step-by-step instructions from lead auditors. We propose that a responsibility prompt reminding component auditors to be aware of their obligations to the group audit engagement can improve their evidence collection. In two experiments, we find that our proposed responsibility prompt can effectively improve component auditors’ evidence collection decisions and that this finding holds across different cultural settings. Our third experiment provides evidence that the regulatory fit between the responsibility prompt and instructions that prime low-level construals improves auditors’ evidence collection. Overall, our findings suggest that prompting component auditors to internalize the responsibility of a group audit engagement is a viable way to improve the quality of group audits.

Keywords: audit instructions; audit judgments; evidence collection; group audit; regulatory fit

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Skye and Phang, Soon-Yeow, How Do Lead Auditor Instructions Influence Component Auditors’ Evidence Collection Decisions? The Joint Influence of Construal Interpretations and Responsibility (September 7, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4564881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4564881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
J Aaker , A Y Lee
Understanding regulatory fit
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 19 Posted: 2006
M A Abernethy , E Vagnoni
Power, organization design and managerial behavior
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 3-4 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
S K Asare , H V Brenk , B Majoor
Evidence on the effect of network status and taking the perspective of the group auditor on component auditor testing strategies
American Accounting Association Audit Midyear Conference Posted: 2020-01-16
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Petros Terzis , Michael Veale , Noëlle Gaumann
Law and the Emerging Political Economy of Algorithmic Audits
Petros Terzis, Michael Veale, and Noëlle Gaumann. 2024. Law and the Emerging Political Economy of Algorithmic Audits. In the 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FACCT ’24), June 03–06, 2024, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. ACM. doi:10.1145/3630106.3658970, · 13 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2024 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
648
RANK
592,728
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies