Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disentangling Stock Return Synchronicity through the Auditor's Perspective

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2023

Joseph Micale

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates a firm’s stock return asynchronicity through the auditor’s perspective to distinguish whether this asynchronicity can proxy for the company’s firm-specific information or the quality of its information environment. We find a significant and positive association between asynchronicity and audit fees after controlling for auditor quality and other factors found to affect audit fees. Disentangling between the literature’s competing firm-specific information and information environment hypotheses, our results are consistent with the idea that stock return asynchronicity is more likely to capture a company’s firm-specific information than its information environment. We also find that asynchronous firms are more likely to receive adverse opinions on their internal controls over financial reporting, but are associated with lower costs of capital and auditor litigation, providing further evidence in support of the firm-specific information argument. Asynchronicity’s positive association with audit fees is driven by firms with higher accounting reporting complexity, suggesting stock return asynchronicity captures a firm’s complexity which results in greater efforts by the auditor.

Keywords: synchronicity, stock returns, idiosyncratic volatility, stock price informativeness, auditor, audit fees, ICFR, firm-specific information, cost of debt, cost of equity

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Micale, Joseph and Hasan, Iftekhar and Wu, Qiang, Disentangling Stock Return Synchronicity through the Auditor's Perspective (September 1, 2023). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4568322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
T Aabo , C Pantzalis , J C Park
Idiosyncratic volatility: An indicator of noise trading
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 75 , p. 136 - 151 Posted: 2017
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering? Posted: 2017
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings Management, Litigation Risk, and Asymmetric Audit Fee Responses
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
P Alves , K Peasnell , P Taylor
The Use of the R2 as a Measure of Firm-Specific Information: A Cross-Country Critique
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Liu Yang , Pujian Yang
Investor Selling Behaviour, Information and Stock Price Synchronicity: Evidence from China
INTFIN-D-24-00378 · 36 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
688
RANK
502,214
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies