Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Partner National Office Experience on Audit and Career Outcomes

52 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2023 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Lauren Matkaluk

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

Large public accounting firms routinely tout national office rotational experience; however, there is little empirical evidence on the costs and benefits of national office experience for audit partners and their firms. We examine the implications of this experience using a mixed-methods approach. We begin by conducting 18 (4) semi-structured interviews with audit partners with (without) national office experience. These interviewees share their perceptions on why auditors obtain such experience, the benefits and challenges stemming from this experience, and how this experience influences subsequent audit work. Then, we empirically examine how national office experience affects partners’ careers, client assignments, and audit outcomes. First, we find that while, on average, national office experience earlier in one’s career is associated with a longer time to partner, it does help auditors from smaller offices be promoted to partner a year earlier than small office partners without it. Second, we find that it helps audit partners, in general, later obtain coveted firm leadership positions.  Third, while we do not find evidence of an average effect of audit partner national office experience on audit quality, we find that such experience earlier in an audit partner’s career leads to higher audit quality when the experience is matched to specific company needs. Our study provides the first comprehensive analysis of the perceived and actual benefits of auditor national office experience, which should interest students, audit firms, audit committees, audit regulators, and scholars researching the audit profession.

Keywords: audit partners, national office rotations, regulatory experience, partner promotion, audit quailty, audit firms, auditor careers, national office, audit outcomes

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Matkaluk, Lauren and Newton, Nathan J. and Pevzner, Mikhail and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, The Effect of Audit Partner National Office Experience on Audit and Career Outcomes (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4569988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Knowledge creation and transfer in the context of national office consultations: Experiences of audit firm partners
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2023
W Anding , M J Mowchan , T A Seidel , A B Zimmerman
Audit partners in leadership roles: Implications for audit quality Posted: 2024
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
328,705
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies