Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Mandates, Audit Firms, and Auditors

George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. 333

103 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Sep 2023

Matthias Breuer

Goethe University Frankfurt

Anthony Le

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Felix Vetter

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: September 12, 2023

Abstract

Audits by private, third-party auditors are frequently mandated to ensure compliance with regulations (e.g., accounting or environmental standards). We examine how such mandates shape the market for audits. In our empirical examination, we focus on one of the oldest and most prominent audit markets, the market for audits of firms’ financial accounting. Using novel data on firms, audit firms, and auditors — the key players in the market — , we find that audit mandates increase the number of audits, audit firms, and auditors, but decrease average auditor wages. These findings are consistent with mandates creating demand for low-quality audits, originating from involuntarily audited firms, in a market with differentiated audit qualities. In line with this interpretation, we find that the regulatory audit demand emanates from smaller firms with limited incentives to obtain audits voluntarily; and is served by smaller audit firms and less experienced auditors. Collectively, our findings suggest that the promise of audit mandates as a means to ensure regulatory compliance may be limited by the emergence of low-quality audits.

Keywords: Auditing, Mandates, Employees, Wages, Quality, Certification, Market Structure

JEL Classification: G18, G38, J23, J24, J31, J42, K22, L10, L51, L84, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Matthias and Le, Anthony and Vetter, Felix, Audit Mandates, Audit Firms, and Auditors (September 12, 2023). George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. 333, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4569877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Daron Acemoglu , David Autor
Chapter 12 -Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
George A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Dan Amiram , Zahn Bozanic , Ethan Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Brad A Badertscher , Jaewoo Kim , William R Kinney , Edward Owens
Assurance level choice, CPA fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from U.S. private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,552
RANK
107,544
5 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies