Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ICT, Professional Training, and Productivity: Evidence from Auditing Industry in Taiwan

32 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2023

Yahn-Shir Chen

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Kui-Ying Lin

National Yunlin University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This paper examines the association between information and communication technology (ICT), professional training and productivity of audit firms in Taiwan. Based on market segmentation, this paper partitions total sample into large, medium, and small audit firms. Aggregate ICT is further divided into hardware and software, and productivity is defined as revenues from traditional and non-traditional services in audit firms. Findings indicate that hardware (software) ICT have significantly positive (negative) effect on the productivity of large audit firms. Professional training positively moderates the negative relationship between software ICT and traditional / non-traditional services, raising the productivity. This paper provides empirical evidence echoing to prior studies, such as Ark (2016). In addition, we find size of an organization decides the effects of ICT on productivity. Our hypotheses receive supports in the large audit firms which extensively deploy and utilize ICT in their businesses.

Keywords: ICT, Hardware ICT, Software ICT, Productivity, Professional training, Audit firms

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yahn-Shir and Lin, Kui-Ying, ICT, Professional Training, and Productivity: Evidence from Auditing Industry in Taiwan. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4572559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4572559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Accounting Today
The Top 100 Firms and Regional Leaders Posted: 2021
G R Aldhizer , J R Miller , J E Moraglio
Common attributes of quality audits
Journal of Accountancy , volume 179 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 68 Posted: 1995
M Alvesson
Organizations as rhetoric: Knowledge-intensive firms and the struggle with ambiguity
Journal of Management Studies , volume 7 , p. 997 - 1015 Posted: 1993
M Alvesson
Social identity and the problem of loyalty in knowledge-intensive companies
Journal of Management Studies , volume 37 , p. 1101 - 1123 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
864,731
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies