Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The #MeToo Movement and Audit Outcomes

50 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2023 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Ryan Ballestero

Kent State University

Jesse Chan

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: September 15, 2023

Abstract

Motivated by role congruity theory, which proposes that mismatches between societal gender norms and the roles of individuals in a negotiation can lead to gender-based differences in outcomes, we examine how the #MeToo movement impacted negotiated outcomes of female-led audit engagements. Following #MeToo, we observe female-led audit engagements experienced increased audit quality, with stronger effects among client firms with at least some female board representation and particularly among firms with ‘token’ levels of female board membership. Consistent with shifts in negotiating behavior as the mechanism, we additionally observe that female audit partners negotiate higher fees with female audit committee chairs following #MeToo when fee renegotiation is necessary. Overall, our findings suggest #MeToo empowered female audit partners but only at clients with some degree of gender inclusivity. Our findings highlight the subtle ways that shifts in social and gender norms relate to shifts in auditor behavior and audit outcomes. 

Keywords: social movements, auditor social ties, audit negotiations, audit quality

JEL Classification: M42, M14, L14

Suggested Citation:

Ballestero, Ryan and Chan, Jesse, The #MeToo Movement and Audit Outcomes (September 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4573275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4573275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Diversity and career trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn data on race, ethnicity, and gender in auditing
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2025
E D Almer , M K Harris , J L Higgs , J R Rakestraw
Partner differences in prestige of clients served at the largest U.S. audit firms
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 173 , p. 401 - 421 Posted: 2021
R Arnow-Richman , J Hicks , S D Solomon
Do social movements spur corporate change? The rise of "MeToo Termination Rights" in CEO contracts
Indiana Law Journal , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 175 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
349,147
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies