Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Auditor’s Application of Professional Judgment: Evidence from M&A-related Critical Audit Matters

46 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2023

Xi Ai

University of Louisville

Date Written: August 20, 2023

Abstract

In this study, I examine the extent to which auditor attributes affect the auditor’s decision to communicate a Critical Audit Matter (CAM) in the expanded auditor’s report. I expect the CAM communication decision to be adversely affected by threats to independence and overconfidence. I focus on a sample of companies that completed material mergers and acquisitions because these are likely to be considered as potential CAMs by meeting the minimal requirements of a CAM (i.e., material accounts or disclosures that involve especially challenging, subjective, or complex auditor judgment). Contrary to expectations, I find that the auditor’s CAM communication decision is influenced by the complexity of the M&A transaction and operations – a rather objective reason for communicating a CAM. While I find variation in CAM communication frequencies by the audit firm, I find little evidence suggesting that auditor attributes at the office- and firm-level affect the auditor’s CAM communication decision.

Suggested Citation:

Ai, Xi, The Auditor’s Application of Professional Judgment: Evidence from M&A-related Critical Audit Matters (August 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4580141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4580141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
L Abbott , W L Buslepp
Do Critical Audit Matters Provide Decision-Relevant Information to Investors? Evidence from Merger and Acquisition Announcements Posted: 2023
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
J Bedard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of expanded audit reports: Evidence from the justifications of assessments in France
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2019
J W Bentley , T A Lambert , E Y Wang
The Effect of Increased Audit Disclosure on Managers' Real Operating Decisions: Evidence from Disclosing Critical Audit Matters
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 40 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
481,321
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies