Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Psychological Distance and Auditor Assessment of the Severity of an Internal Control Deficiency

56 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2023 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Scott C. Jackson

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

John Keyser

Case Western Reserve University

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Date Written: June 04, 2024

Abstract

Auditors often underestimate the severity of internal control deficiencies, particularly when associated misstatements are immaterial. We find that auditors are more likely to correctly classify a material weakness when no misstatement information is provided than when misstatement information is available, and that this finding may unconsciously arise from auditors’ construal level in judging control deficiency severity. Through a series of experiments, we manipulate misstatement information related to an internal control deficiency designed to represent a material weakness. We hold the size of potential misstatement constant and find that auditors and graduate auditing students are less likely to correctly assess the severity of a deficiency as the size of actual misstatement decreases. When no information is provided about a misstatement, we hypothesize and find that this leads to lower construal levels, causing auditors to be more likely to correctly classify a material weakness compared to when an inconsequential misstatement occurred. 

Keywords: Construal Level Theory, Psychological Distance, ICFR, Material Weakness, Material Misstatement

JEL Classification: M42, D91, G41

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Scott and Keyser, John and Prawitt, Douglas F., Psychological Distance and Auditor Assessment of the Severity of an Internal Control Deficiency (June 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4582820 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4582820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
N Agrawal , E Wan
Regulating risk or risking regulation? Construal levels and depletion effects in the processing of health messages
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 36 , p. 448 - 462 Posted: 2009
S J Ahn
Incorporating immersive virtual environments in health promotion campaigns: A construal level theory approach
Health Communication , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 545 - 556 Posted: 2015
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 49 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , G Sadka
Do auditors correctly identify and assess internal control deficiencies? Evidence from the PCAOB data Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
621
RANK
538,270
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies