Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Workplace Identities and Team Management Practices Affect Distributed Team Auditors’ Willingness to Speak Up

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2023

Chad A. Proell

University of North Texas- Ryan College of Business -Department of Accounting

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Ken Trotman

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 28, 2023

Abstract

Distributed, rather than co-located, teams increasingly perform audit work, raising regulator concerns that distributed team communication issues may affect audit quality. We investigate upward communication (i.e., raising issues to supervisors), a key communication dimension related to audit quality (PCAOB, 2010). In Study 1 we survey 69 senior auditors to establish that distributed team upward communication suffers. Further, distributed team auditors identify less with their teams and struggle to know when and how to speak up. Because both are linked to inhibited upward communication, we next experimentally test firm practices with the potential to attenuate these problems. Study 2, an experiment with 128 staff auditors and interns, reveals that making auditors’ professional identities salient improves upward communication on co-located teams with strong team identities but not distributed teams with weak team identities. Study 3, an experiment with 58 staff auditors, replicates a key Study 2 finding with a design that makes no reference to team identity strength. Specifically, in the presence of a salient professional identity, upward communication is significantly higher for co-located relative to distributed team auditors. Study 4, an experiment with 69 staff auditors, focuses solely on distributed teams. It indicates that several distributed team management practices, including one-on-one and standing daily meetings, encourage upward communication. Finally, Study 5, informal interviews with eight audit seniors, corroborates key survey and experimental findings. Combined, our results provide insights into why distributed team communication suffers, refine audit voice theory, and provide regulators, practitioners, and researchers with multiple paths to improve audit quality.

Keywords: Audit teams, distributed teams, group audits, information sharing, audit voice, professional identity

Suggested Citation:

Proell, Chad A. and Ricci, Michael and Trotman, Ken and Zhou, Yuepin, How Workplace Identities and Team Management Practices Affect Distributed Team Auditors’ Willingness to Speak Up (September 28, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4586808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4586808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Code of professional conduct Posted: 2016
B E Ashforth , S A Johnson , M A Hogg , D J Terry
Which hat to wear? The relative salience of multiple identities in organizational contexts
Social Identity Processes in Organizational Contexts , p. 31 - 48 Posted: 2001
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
T D Bauer
The effects of client identity strength and professional identity salience on auditor judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 114 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
637
RANK
658,539
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies