Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of supplementary fair value disclosures under market uncertainty: Effects on audit fees and investors’ pricing

Mehnaz, L., Rahman, A., & Kabir, H. (2022). Relevance of supplementary fair value disclosures under market uncertainty: effects on audit fees and investors’ pricing. Managerial Auditing Journal, 37(7), 819-849.

Posted: 1 Oct 2023

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Laura Mehnaz

Massey University

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: September 29, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Concerns relating to the representational faithfulness, and consequently the relevance, of fair value (FV) estimates are likely to be heightened in the wake of market uncertainty caused by the COVID pandemic. Therefore, we study the relevance of supplementary disclosures intended to improve the representational faithfulness of FV estimates by examining their impacts on audit fees and investors’ valuation of FV adjustments in the uncertain market condition of 2020.

Design/methodology/approach: Our sample is comprised of Australian real estate firms. We develop both weighted and unweighted disclosure indices based on supplementary disclosures related to Level 3 FVs under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. We measure the levels of disclosure by the sample firms based on these indices from 2018 to 2020 and ascertain their effects on audit fees and the market value of FV adjustments on investment properties.

Findings: We find that real estate firms increased supplementary FV disclosures during 2020. We document a negative association between supplementary disclosures and audit fees, although we find no incremental impact of disclosures on audit fees during the pandemic. Additionally, we find that investors’ pricing of FV adjustments increased with the increase in disclosures during the market uncertainty of 2020, while in the pre-uncertainty period, their pricing influence was not significant.

Originality/value: The findings extend our understanding of the role of supplementary disclosures on Level 3 investment properties in mitigating the perceived audit risk for auditors and the faithful representation concerns for investors in a distressed market environment.

Keywords: Supplementary fair value disclosures, Fair value measurement, Audit fee, Value relevance, Market uncertainty, COVID pandemic, Investment properties.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Asheq and Mehnaz, Laura and Kabir, Humayun, Relevance of supplementary fair value disclosures under market uncertainty: Effects on audit fees and investors’ pricing (September 29, 2022). Mehnaz, L., Rahman, A., & Kabir, H. (2022). Relevance of supplementary fair value disclosures under market uncertainty: effects on audit fees and investors’ pricing. Managerial Auditing Journal, 37(7), 819-849., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4587339
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies