Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Evidence, Technology and Judgement: A Review of the Literature in Response to ED-500

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting 35(1): 36-67

32 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2023 Last revised: 12 Jan 2024

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Christopher Calvin

University of Dayton

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Arpine Maghakyan

University of Glasgow; University of Glasgow

Date Written: October 5, 2023

Abstract

In October 2022, the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) issued Exposure Draft 500 (ED-500). This is focused on revising and integrating the standard auditors use when evaluating audit evidence during an external audit. This study contributes to the ongoing discourse as the IAASB evaluates feedback to ED-500 and executes its standard-setting agenda. We review academic literature published in the past ten years to synthesize extant knowledge specifically on the use of technology and the application of professional skepticism during audit evidence evaluation. Our review offers factors the IAASB should consider when seeking to modernize and future-proof its standards, suggesting improvements to the proposed ED-500. We also identify fruitful avenues for future academic research.

Keywords: Audit Evidence, Professional Skepticism, Technology, IAASB, ISA 500

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Calvin, Christopher and Eulerich, Marc and Maghakyan, Arpine, Audit Evidence, Technology and Judgement: A Review of the Literature in Response to ED-500 (October 5, 2023). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting 35(1): 36-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Maarten Siglé , Joost van Buuren , Lisette E. C. J. M. van der Hel
Audit Evidence and Audit Comfort: An Experiment with Tax Auditors
JIAAT-D-24-00180 · 83 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 53
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
470,088
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies