Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Connectivity, Audit Quality and Audit Fees

Abacus, forthcoming.

42 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2023 Last revised: 12 Mar 2025

Meiting Lu

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Ruizhe Wang

The University of Sydney

Ava Wu

Zhejiang University

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: December 17, 2024

Abstract

Regulatory and standard-setting bodies are engaging in stakeholder consultation on connectivity, a practice to connect sustainability-related disclosures with financial statements. We provide empirical evidence on the impact of reporting connectivity on auditors, which is important as several revised PCAOB Auditing Standard (ASs) and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) highlight the importance of understanding sustainability-related financial disclosures for auditors. We find a positive association between the level of connectivity and audit quality, as well as audit fees. This suggests that sustainability-related financial disclosures are useful to auditors but increase the complexity of their work. Additional analyses reveal that the observed effects are contingent on the financial materiality of sustainability-related issues to the business.

Keywords: Integrated reporting, non-financial information, sustainability, connectivity, audit quality, financial materiality

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Meiting and Wang, Ruizhe and Wu, Ava and Zhou, Shan, Reporting Connectivity, Audit Quality and Audit Fees (December 17, 2024). Abacus, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4600887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4600887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
K Amin , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Going concern opinion and cost of equity
A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2014
J Andrew , M Baker
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting: The Last 40 Years and a Path to Sharing Future Insights
Abacus , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 65 Posted: 2020
D Aobdia
Do Practitioners Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , A Yoon
Do Auditors Understand the Implications of ESG Issues for Their Audits? Evidence from Financially Material Negative ESG Incidents Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Xikai Chen , Tom Scott
The Cost of Auditing Service Performance Information
International Journal of Auditing , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 454 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
171,101
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies