Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cannabis financial statement audits in Canada before and after legalization: A “joint” analysis

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 107153 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2023.107153

Posted: 17 Oct 2023

James Brushwood

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Michelle Draeger

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 13, 2023

Abstract

Cannabis has become a multi-billion-dollar worldwide industry and presents accountants with unique challenges and opportunities. This descriptive study examines characteristics of financial statement audits for this budding industry in Canada, one of the first countries to legalize recreational adult use of cannabis. Consistent with cannabis audit clients having higher risk, we find they incur more audit fees before and after legalization than a matched sample of non-cannabis companies. Cannabis companies also pay more non-audit fees before and after legalization, consistent with additional business opportunities for their auditors. The size of cannabis companies grew substantially after Canada’s 2018 legalization, corresponding with increased occurrences of Big 4 cannabis company audits. However, compared to a matched sample of non-cannabis companies and controlling for size, cannabis companies are less (more) likely to be audited by a Big 4 (second-tier) firm. This observation is likely attributed to the reputation risk from being associated with a cannabis client, which is potentially higher for Big 4 firms than second-tier firms.

Keywords: Audit risk, Big 4 auditor, Cannabis legalization, Reputational risk, Second-tier auditor

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brushwood, James and Draeger, Michelle and Rapley, Eric T., Cannabis financial statement audits in Canada before and after legalization: A “joint” analysis (September 13, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 107153 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2023.107153, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4603643
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
234
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies