The PCAOB Inspections Process over Global Network Firms: Synthesizing the Perspective of Former Inspectors with Prior Research 

, Eldar Maksymov, Kim Westermann"> The PCAOB Inspections Process over Global Network Firms: Synthesizing the Perspective of Former Inspectors with Prior Research 

">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The PCAOB Inspections Process over Global Network Firms: Synthesizing the Perspective of Former Inspectors with Prior Research 

54 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2023 Last revised: 25 Sep 2025

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Kim Westermann

Cal Poly San Luis Obispo

Date Written: September 05, 2025

Abstract

Calls for greater transparency in PCAOB inspections have intensified amid persistent concerns about opacity and inconsistency. To address this gap, we integrate prior academic research with in-depth interviews from 29 former PCAOB inspectors to construct a detailed, phase-based account of the inspection process over Global Network Firms. We organize insights into four sequential phases—hiring, training, and performance assessment; planning; execution; and resolution—and present structured taxonomies that combine existing literature with novel, practice-based observations. The paper’s primary contribution lies in organizing fragmented research and insider perspectives into a coherent framework that clarifies how inspections operate in practice and where further research is critical. This synthesis provides a structured foundation for researchers, practitioners, and regulators seeking to evaluate and strengthen audit oversight—at a time when the structure and independence of the PCAOB itself faces renewed political scrutiny.

Keywords: Auditing, PCAOB Inspections, Inspectors, Regulation

JEL Classification: K23, M42

Suggested Citation:

Maksymov, Eldar M. and Westermann, Kimberly,

The PCAOB Inspections Process over Global Network Firms: Synthesizing the Perspective of Former Inspectors with Prior Research 

(September 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4607134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp , J R Moon , L A Swenson , L A
The association between PCAOB inspection reports and seasoned equity offering discounting
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2023
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
Economic consequences of audit firms' QC system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , p. 2883 - 2290 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
720
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,474
RANK
81,650
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies