Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Adoption of AS 3101 over the First Four Years

55 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2023

J L Souza

Saint Joseph’s University

Date Written: October 27, 2023

Abstract

Over time, the audit report has become a boilerplate text with a simple pass/fail assessment. Beginning for all large public companies audited after June 30, 2019, and all other public companies audited after December 15, 2020, the SEC has mandated reporting on critical audit matters (CAM) be included with the audit report. However, the new rules do not explicitly define what must be included and what is not relevant. Our purpose in this research is to examine the additional reporting content to determine how the audit firms writing these CAM sections evolved their style and structure from the first wave of CAM reports to the second wave. We analyze the variation in the way the information is provided to understand how audit firms and public companies are preparing these reports and their usability to the stakeholders. Such information is vital to the practitioners as it can help ensure that these new reporting requirements have the greatest chance of succeeding in meeting the information needs of stakeholders. It can also inform best practices for the profession with regard to CAM preparation.

Keywords: critical audit matters, audit reports, textual analysis

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Souza, J L, Audit Firm Adoption of AS 3101 over the First Four Years (October 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4609306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4609306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
335
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies