Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Disclosures Informative about Future Foreign Earnings?

42 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2023 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Russell Barber

University of Colorado Denver

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether audit disclosures regarding changes in foreign component auditor use are informative about the persistence of foreign earnings. Lead auditors engage foreign component auditors when, amongst other factors, foreign locations are financially significant to the resulting audit. When determining whether and to what extent to use component auditors, the lead auditor is likely to gather private information about the company's foreign operations. Therefore, changes in component auditor use could reveal information about the ability of current foreign earnings to generate future foreign earnings. Consistent with this, we find changes in component auditor use are associated with foreign earnings persistence, even after controlling for other foreign information sources such as geographic segments, foreign sales, and subsidiaries. Interestingly, investors do not appear to recognize the usefulness of this information. Our evidence suggests that auditors' private information about foreign operations is revealed through public disclosures about component auditor use. 

Keywords: Foreign Earnings, Foreign Earnings Persistence, Component Auditor, Form AP, Private Information

Suggested Citation:

Barber, Russell and Burke, Jenna and Gunny, Katherine, Are Audit Disclosures Informative about Future Foreign Earnings? (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4611875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4611875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Do investors use audit partner identification? Evidence from the KPMG
Steal the Exam' Scandal. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
AICPA). 2021. Special Considerations -Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors , volume 600
Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit
SAS , volume 47 Posted: 1983
D Aobdia , V Castellani , P Richardson
Do investors care who led the audit in the U.S.? Evidence from announcements of accounting restatements Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
752
RANK
493,078
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies