Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Key Audit Matters in Thailand

Dusadeedumkoeng, O., Gandía, J.L. & Huguet, D. (2023). Determinants of key audit matters in Thailand. Journal of Competitiveness, 15(3), 184-206. https://doi.org/10.7441/joc.2023.03.10

Posted: 9 Jan 2024 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Orathai Dusadeedumkoeng

Independent

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 25, 2023

Abstract

Key audit matters (KAM) have become an essential part of audit reports, as they help to assess the audit risks and how auditors face them, contributing to show audit quality. In this sense, the perceived audit quality may provide competitive advantages to auditors in the market. KAM reporting does not only depend on the auditor characteristics, but it is also determined by the auditee’ features. Therefore, we examine whether company and audit characteristics affect the number and type of KAM. To do so, we use a sample of Thai listed companies for the period 2016-2020. After classifying KAMs into two categories (entity-risk related and account-related), we examine the effect of company size, complexity and risk characteristics, as well as features from the auditor and audit report, on the number and nature of KAMs. The results show that company size, company complexity, and company liquidity and solvency have a significant effect on KAMs. The results also show that the presence of going concern issues affects KAMs; however, in contrast to the findings in prior literature, no significant differences exist among auditors based on auditor size. The findings show that KAM reporting is mostly homogeneous regardless of auditor characteristics, supporting the idea of a high competitiveness in the audit market. Auditors need to use other means to signal their perceived superior quality.

Keywords: Audit report, Key Audit Matters, KAM determinants, Audit Quality; Thailand

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dusadeedumkoeng, Orathai and Gandía, Juan L. and Huguet, David, Determinants of Key Audit Matters in Thailand (October 25, 2023). Dusadeedumkoeng, O., Gandía, J.L. & Huguet, D. (2023). Determinants of key audit matters in Thailand. Journal of Competitiveness, 15(3), 184-206. https://doi.org/10.7441/joc.2023.03.10 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4612371
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies