Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Auditors’ Planned Audit Responses to Clients’ Use of Artificial Intelligence

41 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2023

Nikki L. MacKenzie

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Jennifer McCallen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Jane M. Thayer

Georgia Institute of Technology

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

While artificial intelligence (AI) offers potential for improved reporting of complex estimates, practitioners and researchers lack an understanding of how the use of AI by audit clients in generating a complex estimate impacts auditors’ planning for the audit of the estimate. We examine how the client’s valuation source (AI vs. human expert) and estimation accuracy in the prior period impact auditors’ planned audit response in the current year audit. Utilizing algorithm reliance theory, we expect and find that when estimates are more (less) accurate in the prior period, auditors plan less (more) additional audit work for AI-derived estimates compared to those generated by human experts. Supplemental analysis indicates that it is both assessed risk and blame that mediate auditors’ planned audit responses to an AI-derived estimate but only risk that mediates auditors’ planned audit responses with a human-derived estimate.

Keywords: Complex estimates, artificial intelligence, risk assessment, audit planning, look-back analysis

Suggested Citation:

MacKenzie, Nikki and McCallen, Jennifer and Thayer, Jane M.,

Auditors’ Planned Audit Responses to Clients’ Use of Artificial Intelligence

(August 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4619017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4619017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S Aghazadeh , J R Joe
Auditors' response to management confidence and misstatement risk
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 101 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2022
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
A A Austin , T Carpenter , M H Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
A G Backof , R Martin , J Thayer
How do look-back analyses and evidence specificity affect auditors' planning judgments?
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
220,537
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies