Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Face-to-Face Auditor Client Interactions: Evidence from Auditors’ Taxi Rides to the Clients’ Headquarters

48 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Kun Li

Australian National University (ANU)

Ava Wu

Zhejiang University

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the implications of auditor-client face-to-face interactions on audit quality by using records of auditors’ taxi rides to their clients’ headquarters in New York City. We find that more frequent auditor taxi rides to their clients’ headquarters are associated with higher audit quality. This benefit mainly pertains to clients with new management, less transparent clients, and non-specialist auditors. More frequent auditor taxi rides to their clients’ headquarters are also associated with shorter audit delays, especially when there are more taxi rides prior to fiscal year end during the interim audit period, when risk assessment, quarterly reviews, and initial internal control testing are conducted. Our results have implications for audit firms as advancements in technology have shifted the medium of auditor-client interactions away from face-to-face to virtual meeting platforms.

Keywords: Face-to-Face, Auditor, Interaction, Taxi Rides, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chan and Li, Kun and Wu, Ava and Zhou, Shan, The Implications of Face-to-Face Auditor Client Interactions: Evidence from Auditors’ Taxi Rides to the Clients’ Headquarters (October 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4625133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4625133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J F Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
298,603
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies