Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Struggles Over Auditors’ Socialization: The Disruption of the Audit Heterotopia

Posted: 10 Nov 2023

Oriane Couchoux

Sprott School of Business at Carleton University

Laurence Daoust

HEC Montreal

Bertrand Malsch

Queen's University - School of Business

Date Written: November 6, 2023

Abstract

Big 4 firms have long been described as “reinventive” organizations that have a powerful hold on their personnel through well-oiled socialization and training processes. In this study, we examine how recent major upheavals in public accounting (i.e., the adoption of flexible work arrangements, the increased use of data analytics and associated tools, the rise of captive offshoring) are affecting Big 4 firms and the experience of auditors in these firms. To do so, we draw on the concept and underlying principles of the “heterotopia” (Foucault 1986), which represents an enclosed space that is characterized by its own set of norms and that serves a particular function for the people who enter it. Specifically, we use data collected from 31 interviews with auditors (staff auditors, managers, and partners) to explore the audit space as a heterotopia. The findings reveal that the disappearance of the physical audit room has resulted in firms’ socialization and learning processes being significantly disrupted. The reduced number of in-person interactions has changed auditors’ relationship to space and time, which has impacted staff auditors’ learning as well as their commitment to the firms’ unwritten rules and values. The transformation of audit spaces has also created opportunities for staff auditors to challenge and contest some of the historical key markers of audit careers, such as long hours and overwork. Managers’ and partners’ reactions to new recruits’ perceived disengagement show a certain level of detachment from their mentoring role, which could also be seen as a form of resistance. This study contributes to renewing our understanding of what it means to be an auditor today and to clarifying the implications of these altered processes on auditors’ expertise, sense of professionalism, and audit quality.

Keywords: Audit, auditor, heterotopia, learning, professional service firms, socialization

JEL Classification: L84, M42

Suggested Citation:

Couchoux, Oriane and Daoust, Laurence and Malsch, Bertrand, Struggles Over Auditors’ Socialization: The Disruption of the Audit Heterotopia (November 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626126
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
383
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies