Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Race and Gender Through the University to Audit Firm Pipeline

80 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

This study evaluates the auditing profession’s diversity initiatives by comparing diversity in the university to job pipeline for auditing and other disciplines. In tests using data describing millions of Americans, my most consistent finding is that Black representation in the audit labor pipeline is anomalous relative to comparable occupations. Specifically, I find that Black people are overrepresented among college freshmen planning to major in accounting but are underrepresented among recipients of accounting bachelor’s and master’s degrees, that audit firm hiring is concentrated at universities with few Black graduates, and that Black people are underrepresented among entry-level auditors compared to other similar professions. Regarding prominent theories about Black underrepresentation in auditing, my findings conform best with unintentionally biased recruiting and do not conform well with lower interest in accounting among Black students, explicit racism in audit firm recruiting, or lower interest among Black accounting graduates in pursuing careers in audit firms.

Keywords: DEI, Diversity of the Auditing Profession, Accounting Education, Audit Firm Recruiting, Black Hiring Anomaly, Accounting Labor Pipeline

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M42, J24, J44, I23

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Paul E., Race and Gender Through the University to Audit Firm Pipeline (November 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Aicpa
Trends: A Report on Accounting Education, the CPA Exam and Public Accounting Firms' Hiring of Recent Graduates Posted: 2021
Aicpa
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2019
Aicpa
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2017
Aicpa
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
245,493
3 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies