Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Converting the Skeptic but Losing the Faithful: An Experimental Examination of Expanding and Auditing Information in ESG Reports

48 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Rachel Lyman

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

While socially responsible investing (SRI) has soared in recent years, some investors remain skeptical of ESG’s relevance. Despite these differing opinions, we understand little about how SRI preferences impact processing of ESG reporting. Drawing on motivated reasoning, I report an experiment that tests predictions about how two prominent ESG reporting attributes interact with investor SRI affinity. First, companies can choose ESG reporting frameworks that either disclose only financially material activities or all activities material to external stakeholders. I predict and find that retail investors adjust their willingness to invest based on alignment between their directional SRI goals and the company’s chosen ESG reporting framework. Second, companies commonly obtain assurance over only one of several ESG metrics. The introduction of an audited metric alongside unaudited metrics creates a salient disparity in the reliability of those metrics, a so-called “reliability gap.” I predict and find that the reliability gap conveys lower ESG commitment, repelling higher SRI affinity investors while reassuring lower SRI affinity investors. One intriguing result is that a common combination of reporting choices designed to demonstrate a company’s ESG commitment – an expansive reporting framework and partial assurance – may win over the SRI skeptic while losing the SRI faithful.

Keywords: ESG, Assurance, Single Materiality, Double Materiality, Socially Responsible Investing

Suggested Citation:

Lyman, Rachel, Converting the Skeptic but Losing the Faithful: An Experimental Examination of Expanding and Auditing Information in ESG Reports (November 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
H E Aldrich , C M Fiol
Fools rush in? The institutional context of industry creation , volume 19 , p. 645 - 670 Posted: 1994
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , R D Sommerfeldt
Auditing Non-GAAP Measures: Signaling More Than Intended
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2021
H S Asay , J Hales , C Hinds , K Rupar
Nonprofessional Investor Judgments: Linking Dependent Measures to Constructs Posted: 2022
R Baumsteiger , J T Siegel
Measuring prosociality: The development of a prosocial behavioral intentions scale
Journal of personality assessment , volume 101 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 314 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
233,376
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies