Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Accounting Quality: Measurement and the Role of Assurance

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4627783

71 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 20 Feb 2024

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Fiona Sequeira

Stanford University

Shawn X. Shi

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Date Written: July 29, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether external assurance improves the quality of firms’ carbon accounting. We develop a measure of carbon accounting quality based on the deviation of reported emissions from a model-based expected level and supplement it with two survey-based measures. We show that assurance is associated with higher carbon accounting quality. This association is stronger when firms have weaker pre-existing carbon accounting systems and when assurance is more thorough. Consistent with assurance enhancing quality, assurance relates to the identification of issues in a firm’s carbon accounting system, along with fewer omissions and more revisions of prior disclosures. Exploiting mandated assurance for non-financial reporting in three E.U. countries, we show that firms experience post-regulation increases in carbon accounting quality. Together, the findings highlight the importance of assurance for reporting firms that are improving their carbon accounting quality.

Keywords: carbon accounting, ESG assurance, sustainability

JEL Classification: G18, G30, M14, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gipper, Brandon and Sequeira, Fiona and Shi, Shawn, Carbon Accounting Quality: Measurement and the Role of Assurance (July 29, 2024). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4627783, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
P Agrawal , L Bayne , N Hellman , M Wee
Connectivity and Boundaries of Climaterelated disclosures in Annual Reports Posted: 2024
K Allee , T L Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately Held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The Relation between Equity Incentives and Misreporting: The Role of Risk-Taking Incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler , D F Larcker , S X Shi
Rank-and-file accounting employee compensation and financial reporting quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 78 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,724
RANK
30,614
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies