Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stuck in Traffic: Do Auditors Price Traffic Congestion?

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Jie Hao

Susquehanna University, Sigmund Weis School of Business

Viet Tuan Pham

Susquehanna University, Sigmund Weis School of Business

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

Although the detrimental impact of traffic congestion on firm operations and human health is widely acknowledged, it is unclear whether auditors perceive traffic congestion as a risk factor. We posit and find that the traffic congestion levels in audit clients’ domicile cities are positively associated with audit fees. Using a structured equation model, we identify and illustrate several channels that explain the effect of traffic congestion on audit fees. We also find evidence of audit fee increases after events that expose clients to higher levels of traffic congestion. Finally, the effect of traffic congestion on audit fees is more pronounced when clients have higher operation concentration near their headquarters or when auditors’ offices are located near clients’ headquarters. Collectively, our findings suggest that auditors view traffic congestion as a risk factor that is priced into audit fees.

Keywords: traffic congestion, audit fees, audit effort, audit risk

JEL Classification: R41, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Jie and Pham, Viet Tuan, Stuck in Traffic: Do Auditors Price Traffic Congestion? (November 10, 2023). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 Posted: 2003
M L Anderson
Subways, strikes, and slowdowns: The impacts of public transit on traffic congestion
American Economic Review , volume 104 , issue 9 , p. 2763 - 2796 Posted: 2014
S C Asthana , J P Boone
Abnormal audit fee and audit quality
Auditing: a journal of practice & theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Jie Hao , Viet Tuan Pham
Client Lending Relationships and Audit Production
YBARE-D-24-00202 · 54 Pages · Posted: 18 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 23
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
703
RANK
394,952
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies