Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Auditing in China

Research Handbook on Corporate Governance in China, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Rui SHI

National University of Singapore - NUS Business School

Yannis Yuan

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

This monograph offers an overview of auditing practices in China from the perspective of New Institutional Economics. We follow Douglass North’s institutional/cognitive approach to understand auditing as an institution, and our discussion proceeds in four steps. First, we explore the economic and regulatory forces that have driven the evolution of the audit market in China. Second, we discuss the implications of audit market consolidation on audit outcomes. Third, we delve into the role of audit partners and elaborate on how auditor experiences influence auditor judgment, thereby shaping the effectiveness of the auditing institution. Finally, we discuss opportunities for integrating the stakeholder model, new structural economics, informal institutions, and cognitive science into future auditing research.

Keywords: Auditing, Auditor, China, Institution, Institutional/Cognitive Approach, New Institutional Economics.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48.

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yupeng and SHI, Rui and Yuan, Yannis and Zuo, Luo, The Economics of Auditing in China (March 18, 2024). Research Handbook on Corporate Governance in China, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4632009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Y Barzel
Measurement cost and the organization of markets
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
204,845
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies