Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Information Technology on Audit Quality in Accounting Firms in Harare, Zimbabwe

12 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Anthony Tapiwa Mazikana

University of Zimbabwe

Date Written: November 19, 2023

Abstract

The introduction of IT has led to the use of CAAT’S extensively by auditors when they are performing audits (Bender, 2017; Nasser & Tariq, 2015; Manson, McCartney & Sherer, 2017). However, these CAAT’S cannot be relied on completely by the auditor as a means of assessing the effectiveness of internal control and the verifying management assertions in the computerized environment. The introduction of IT has resulted in transactions which are complex and require auditors to change from their paper based approach to a more computerized approach that will be line with the clients’ demands (Bender, 2017; Nasser & Tariq, 2015; Manson, McCartney & Sherer, 2017). The relationship between information technology and audit quality has been the subject of abundant research in several fields, including auditing, accounting and financial management. This study has been examined by numerous scholars. Despite the profusion of studies on information technology in the previous few decades, there is no widely accepted causal relationship between information technology and audit quality. The empirical research on the impact of information technology on audit quality in accounting companies has given conflicting results that are equivocal and contradictory. Because of these contradicting results, the subject of whether information technology helps or decreases audit quality is still worthy of additional research.

Keywords: auditing, information technology, audit, machine learning, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Mazikana, Anthony Tapiwa, The Impact of Information Technology on Audit Quality in Accounting Firms in Harare, Zimbabwe (November 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4637898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Adrian
Big Data Challenges
Database Systems Journal , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 40 Posted: 2018
M Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big Data by the Audit Profession , volume 29 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
M D C G Alves , S I A Matos , H Brown-Liburd , H Issa , D Lombardi
Behavioral Implications of Big Data's Impact on Audit Judgement and Decision Making and Future Research Directions
Proceedings of the European Conference on Information Management & Evaluation , volume 29 , p. 451 - 468 Posted: 2015
business.com Posted: 2017-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,501
RANK
278,525
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies