Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From "audit machines" to tech-savvy auditors: Auditors' quest for professional security in respect to digital transformation

71 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Pier-Luc Lajoie

Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières; Université Laval

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Date Written: June 21, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, the Big Four firms have embarked on digital transformation projects that have the potential to throw auditors’ daily practice into turmoil. This study looks at the auditors’ quest for professional security, namely their confidence in the fundamental features of their profession. Specifically, we investigate how auditors, when construing their experiences in a firm engaged in a digital transformation project promoting automation of a significant portion of their work, seek to preserve their sense of professional security. Interviews with auditors indicate that in contrast to the high professional insecurity caused by the commercialization of auditing in the early 2000s, the digital transformation of the profession ultimately strengthened auditors’ professional security. Over time, the interviewees became receptive to the firm-promoted label of tech-savvy auditor and subscribed to the ideology of technological complementarity that sees closer “collaboration” with technology as enhancing the auditor’s work rather than replacing, undermining, or enslaving the auditor. Interviewees also implemented purification strategies to preserve the purity of this ideology. Three implications are discussed. First, our study casts doubt on auditors’ romanticized view of the technological complementarity ideology in light of economic and socio-organizational theories about the automation of work. These theories lead us to question the auditors’ belief that they will retain their professional autonomy. Second, according to our analyses, one key explanation for auditors’ high level of professional security is digital transformation projects surrounding the audit function being part of a continuing trajectory of commercialization within accountancy. Third, our findings suggest that digital transformation projects act as a vehicle for identity development, allowing the tech-savvy auditor to escape the shameful stereotypes ascribed to the traditional auditor – that is, an auditor who manually performs most of the mundane tasks required to complete an audit.

Keywords: audit, automation of work, technological complementarity, professional identity, professional insecurity, digital transformation

Suggested Citation:

Lajoie, Pier-Luc and Gendron, Yves, From "audit machines" to tech-savvy auditors: Auditors' quest for professional security in respect to digital transformation (June 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4637995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions Posted: 1988
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Tasks, automation, and the rise in us wage inequality
Econometrica , volume 90 , issue 5 , p. 1973 - 2016 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,299
RANK
224,403
6 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies