Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles Based Accounting Standards, Audit Fees and Going Concern: Evidence Using Advanced Machine Learning

Subedi, M. (2024). Principles based accounting standards, audit fees and going concern: Evidence using advanced machine learning. International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 32(2), 308-344. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-02-2023-0026



58 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 25 May 2025

Meena Subedi

Carroll University

Date Written: May 11, 2023

Abstract

Purpose –The current study utilizes an advanced machine learning method and aims to investigate whether auditors perceive financial statements that are principles-based as less risky. More specifically, the study explores the association between principles-based accounting standards and audit pricing and between principles-based accounting standards and the likelihood of receiving a going concern opinion.
Design/methodology/approach – The study employs an advanced machine-learning method to understand the role of principles-based accounting standards in predicting audit fees and going concern opinion. The study also uses multiple regression models defining audit fees and the probability of receiving going concern opinion. The analyses are complemented by additional tests such as economic significance, firm fixed effects, propensity score matching, entropy balancing, change analysis, yearly regression results, and controlling for managerial risk-taking incentives and governance variables.
Findings – The paper provides empirical evidence that auditors charge less audit fees to clients whose financial statements are more principles-based. The finding suggests that auditors perceive financial statements that are principles-based less risky. The study also provides evidence that the probability of receiving a going-concern opinion reduces as firms rely more on principles-based standards. The finding further suggests that auditors discount the financial numbers supplied by the managers using rules-based standards. The study also reveals that the degree of reliance by a US firm on principles-based accounting standards has a negative impact on accounting conservatism (both conditional and unconditional), the risk of financial statement misstatement, accruals, and the difficulty in predicting future earnings. This suggests potential mechanisms through which principles-based accounting standards influence auditors' risk assessments.
Research limitations/implications – The authors recognize the limitation of this study regarding the sample period. Prior studies compare rules vs. principles-based standards by focusing on the differences between US GAAP and IFRS or pre and post-IFRS adoption, which raises questions about differences in cross-country settings and institutional environment and other confounding factors such as transition costs. This study addresses these issues by comparing rules vs. principles-based standards within the US GAAP setting. However, this limits the sample period to the year 2006 because the measure of the relative extent to which a US firm is reliant upon principles-based standards is available until 2006.
Originality/value – The study has major public policy suggestions because it demonstrates the value of principles-based standards. The study responds to the call by Jay Clayton and Mary Jo White, the former Chairs of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to pursue high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards to ensure that investors continue to receive clear and reliable financial information as business transactions and investor needs continue to evolve globally. The study also recognizes the notable public policy implications, particularly in light of the current Chair of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) Andreas Barckow’s recent public statement which emphasizes the importance of principles-based standards and their ability to address sustainability concerns, including emerging risks like climate change. The study fills the gap in the literature that auditors perceive principles-based financial statements as less risky and further expands the literature by providing empirical evidence that the likelihood of receiving a going concern opinion is increasing in the degree of rules-based standards.

Keywords: Principles-Based Standards, Rules-Based Standards, Advanced Machine Learning, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Audit Fees, Going Concern Opinion, Conditional Conservatism, Unconditional Conservatism, Financial Misstatement, Accruals

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Subedi, Meena, Principles Based Accounting Standards, Audit Fees and Going Concern: Evidence Using Advanced Machine Learning (May 11, 2023).
Subedi, M. (2024). Principles based accounting standards, audit fees and going concern: Evidence using advanced machine learning. International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 32(2), 308-344. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-02-2023-0026


, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4637154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
D Acker , J Horton , I Tonks
Accounting standards and analysts' forecasts: The impact of FRS3 on analysts' ability to forecast EPS
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2002
A I Adler , A Painsky
Feature importance in gradient boosting trees with crossvalidation feature selection
Entropy , volume 24 , issue 5 Posted: 2022
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
232,542
1 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies