Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Audit Partners, COVID-19 Crisis, and Cost of Bank Debt

41 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Huimin (Amy) Chen

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Ibrahim Siraj

Long Island University

Anqi Tao

Nichols College

Date Written: November 25, 2023

Abstract

Women are risk-averse and have a low threshold of risk tolerance but can be associated with a greater likelihood of failures during a crisis through gender discrimination. We find that the increase in the bank loan spread during the COVID-19 pandemic is 7.7% higher for firms with female audit partners than male audit partners. The number of covenants, number of lenders, and collateral are also more restrictive for firms with female audit partners than male audit partners during the pandemic. However, female audit partners exert more audit effort and produce higher audit quality (less restatement and discretionary accruals) than male audit partners during the pandemic. Furthermore, we find that the increase in the bank loan spread is more pronounced for female partners in CPA firms with male-dominated culture and for female partners assigned with low-prestige clients, but not for clients with financial distress. These findings suggest the gender discrimination possibly originated within the CPA firm is enhanced externally during a crisis.

Keywords: Audit engagement partner, Sex, Gender, Cost of debt, Diversity, Covid-19

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huimin (Amy) and Siraj, Ibrahim and Tao, Anqi, Female Audit Partners, COVID-19 Crisis, and Cost of Bank Debt (November 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4643928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4643928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
E D Almer , M K Harris , J L Higgs , J R Rakestraw
2021a. Partner gender differences in prestige of clients served at the largest US audit firms
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 173 , issue 2 , p. 401 - 421
Partner gender differences in prestige of clients served at the largest US audit firms
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 173 , p. 401 - 421 Posted: 2021
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget..": the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
588,428
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies