Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Information Systems Audit Conclusion

Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Emerging Technologies (ICISET)

6 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Ericky Iipumbu

Namibia University of Science and Technology

Isaac Nhamu

Namibia University of Science and Technology

Mercy Chitauro

Namibia University of Science and Technology

Date Written: November 29, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the elements that significantly affect an information system audit's conclusion. The importance of guaranteeing the effectiveness, efficiency, and security of information systems has been underlined by the ongoing advancement of technology and the growing reliance on digital infrastructure. An information system audit's main goal is to assess the systems' overall integrity and to reassure stakeholders that they are trustworthy and sufficiently protected against any hazards. The paper identifies and examines the important elements that affect the outcome of information system audits by drawing on a thorough examination of the literature and empirical studies. Conducting a thorough and accurate information systems audit requires an understanding of these aspects and the proper handling of them. The results of this study give significant contributions to the field of information system auditing and provide a foundation for auditors, IT managers, and policymakers to create efficient plans for carrying out thorough and insightful audits. The ultimate goal of this article is to increase the resilience of information systems in a constantly evolving digital environment and to create a greater awareness of the elements that support audit conclusions.

Keywords: Information System Audit, Risk assessment, CIA, Internal controls

Suggested Citation:

Iipumbu, Ericky and Nhamu, Isaac and Chitauro, Mercy, Factors Affecting Information Systems Audit Conclusion (November 29, 2023). Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Emerging Technologies (ICISET), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4648690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
A Alagić , L Turulja , N Bajgorić
Identification of Information System Audit Quality Factors
Journal of Forensic Accounting Profession , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2021
S ; Pci Alexiou , Qsa , Isaca , C Martin , Cisa , Cissp
trends challenges-and-strategies-foreffective-audit-ina-rapidly-changing-landscape INTOSAI
Trends, Challenges, and Strategies for Effective Audit in a Rapidly Changing Landscape Posted: 2019-11-01
F Nabil
The role of information technology in improving auditing quality and reporting at the State Audit Bureau of Kuwait Posted: 2021-11-13
M T Siponen , A Vance
Neutralization: New Insights into the Problem of Employee Information Systems Security Policy Violations
Management Information Systems Quarterly , volume 34 , issue 3 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
683
RANK
580,215
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies