Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Adjustments Matter: How Does the Disclosure of Audit Adjustments Help Improving Audit Quality?

27 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Hanxin Hu

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Ting Sun

The College of New Jersey

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China

Date Written: November 29, 2023

Abstract

In today’s evolving business environment, measuring audit quality has become more challenging as it is influenced by a variety of factors which are unobservable to the regulators. This research explains a new approach to measure audit quality using audit adjustment information. It discusses two distinct features of audit adjustment data: (1) its frequency of release, which is more frequent than existing measures and can account for less severe audit deficiencies; (2) the construction of a “surprise score” that captures the effect of unobservable factors on audit quality. The paper discusses challenges in acquiring audit adjustment data and identifies opportunities for data collection through initiatives taken by regulators in different countries. Finally, it suggests the best use of the audit-related data to improve audit quality. The study contributes to accounting practice by providing regulators with an approach of identifying potential audit deficiencies that cannot be captured by existing audit quality measures.

Keywords: Audit adjustments, Audit quality, Data disclosure, Regulators, Audit-related data

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G32, G38, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Hanxin and Sun, Ting and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A. and Zhang, Min, Audit Adjustments Matter: How Does the Disclosure of Audit Adjustments Help Improving Audit Quality? (November 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4648395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Acra
Audit Adjustments Matter: What They Reveal about Companies' Financial Reporting Posted: 2022
K A V A Al-Htaybat , -A , L
Big Data and corporate reporting: impacts and paradoxes. Accounting, auditing & accountability journal Posted: 2017
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Appelbaum , D S Showalter , T Sun , M A Vasarhelyi
A framework for auditor data literacy: A normative position
Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 25 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
776
RANK
511,635
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies