Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Factors of Selecting Audit Clients: Evidence From an Emerging Market

Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 20, Issue 4, 2023

16 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2023

Karim Hegazy

Zayed University - College of Business

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Noha Mahmoud Kamareldawla

Cairo University

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the insights and criteria audit partners use to select prospective clients in an emerging market. We use questionnaires to solicit responses from a sample of auditors at the partner/manager level in Big and non-Big 4 audit firms with international affiliations in an emerging economy. Descriptive statistical tools including the chi-square test and multiple logistic regression analysis are used for the analysis. This study finds that auditor reputation enhancement and corporate governance effectiveness are significantly associated with the acceptance of listed companies and that the higher financial reporting quality of listed companies and the need to promote audit and assurance services are significant factors affecting such decisions. Audit firms tend to select parents or subsidiaries because of the expected effective audits and reduced misstatement and litigation risks and audit firm industry expertise is needed to mitigate expected client risks to significantly affect the selection of clients with prior-year audit qualifications. Fraud is significantly associated with the selection of clients with prior violations reported by government monitoring bodies. This study is among the few empirical studies in emerging economies that provide insights from practicing auditors on a set of comprehensive attributes that affect the selection of audit clients. The findings have implications for audit partners and firms, auditees, and the audit profession in selecting clients that fit the firm’s and profession’s vision of audit branding and reputation.

Keywords: Audit, Client Selection, Emerging Market, Audit Qualification, Regression Analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Karim and Chong, H Gin and Kamareldawla, Noha Mahmoud, Investigating the Factors of Selecting Audit Clients: Evidence From an Emerging Market (November 30, 2023). Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 20, Issue 4, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
601,250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies