Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chinese Auditor Inspection Access Challenges: The Market’s Response to Integrated Us Regulatory and Legislative Action

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, No. 6, 2023

Posted: 2 Jan 2024

Lacey Donley

Independent

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of mounting regulator interest in US-listed Chinese firms facing PCAOB inspection access challenges. Our study provides evidence of the market’s response to five events taking place from 2018 to 2020. Collectively, these events mark the first-ever integrated regulatory and legislative response from the PCAOB, SEC, and US legislature since initiation of the PCAOB’s international inspection program. First, we consider whether the PCAOB’s eighth annual update of inaccessible jurisdictions is newsworthy to investors. Next, we consider investors’ perceptions of audit quality risks and delisting risks among Chinese firms. We find that the market does respond negatively towards cross-listed Chinese firms following PCAOB, SEC, and US legislative action. Results further suggest that market reactions are motivated by investors’ perception of a delisting risk among Chinese firms. This observation is most salient among small Chinese firms having fewer listing alternatives outside of the US.

Keywords: Market reaction, China, PCAOB inspection, SEC, Audit quality, Delisting

Suggested Citation:

Donley, Lacey, Chinese Auditor Inspection Access Challenges: The Market’s Response to Integrated Us Regulatory and Legislative Action (June 30, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, No. 6, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650841
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
224
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies