Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Analyst-Auditor Connections on Analysts’ Performance

Accepted at European Accounting Review

43 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Junxiong Fang

Fudan University - School of Management

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Shuqing Luo

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: December 7, 2023

Abstract

Using Chinese data, we find that analysts’ earnings forecasts are more accurate and less biased when analysts are socially connected with the company’s signatory auditor. We also find that forecast performance improves following mandatory auditor rotations that result in new analyst-auditor connections and declines following mandatory rotations that terminate existing connections. We further find that our results become stronger when the information that auditors possess is likely to be more useful to analysts, that connected analysts have better career outcomes than unconnected analysts, and that investors and other analysts are more responsive to forecast revisions issued by connected analysts. Finally, we find that connected auditors provide higher quality audits to their connected clients and are more likely to retain those clients. Overall, our findings are consistent with connected analysts benefitting from private information obtained from their social connections with auditors by providing better earnings forecasts, and in turn, with auditors benefitting from information they receive from connected analysts by delivering higher quality audits that improve client retention.

Keywords: analyst forecasts, social connections, school ties, auditor-client confidentiality.

JEL Classification: G14, G17, M40, M42.

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Fang, Junxiong and Lennox, Clive and Luo, Shuqing, The Effects of Analyst-Auditor Connections on Analysts’ Performance (December 7, 2023). Accepted at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4656868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
we use two variables to measure analyst career advancement: PROMOTE and STAR. PROMOTE is an indicator variable equal to one if an analyst moves to a larger brokerage firm, and zero otherwise. STAR is an indicator variable equal to one if an analyst is an all-star analyst in the next year based on Chinese New Fortune's annual voting by institutional investors, and zero otherwise Posted: 2015
J S Abarbanell , R Lanen , Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Accounting Today
SEC charges Ex-PwC auditors with insider trading Posted: 2008-01-16
Auditing Standards
Auditing standards for CPAs of China No. 1121 -Quality control on an audit of historical financial information Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
418,383
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies