Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Auditor Reputation in an Emerging Audit Marketplace: Evidence from Decentralized Finance (DeFi)

Management Science, Articles in Advance [10.1287/mnsc.2023.02245]

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 25 Sep 2025

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Steven Maex

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 24, 2025

Abstract

We explore the role of auditor reputation in driving the value of smart contract audits (SCAs) within the decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem. Given the lack of regulatory oversight and the risk of cybersecurity breaches against the protocols comprising the DeFi ecosystem, a marketplace has emerged for voluntary on-demand assurance to identify vulnerabilities in smart contracts’ coded logic. After documenting that market participants value SCAs and exploring the protocol attributes associated with the demand for smart contract audits, we show that auditor reputation can be established through both advertising (i.e., engagement on Twitter) and the delivery of a high-quality audit, which significantly shape the extent to which an SCA is valued. Additional analyses suggest that the value of an SCA is maximized when both high advertising and high audit quality are present, highlighting the complementary role of these two factors in enhancing auditor reputation. Furthermore, we find that events conceivably damaging the reputation of the auditor (i.e., breaches of protocols recently audited) generate a negative spillover to the auditor’s other recent clients. Overall, our study provides novel insights about the role of auditor reputation in emerging audit markets.

Keywords: blockchain, smart contracts, smart contract audits, DeFi, cryptocurrency, reputation

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Maex, Steven and Park, Hyun Jong, The Role of Auditor Reputation in an Emerging Audit Marketplace: Evidence from Decentralized Finance (DeFi) (March 24, 2025). Management Science, Articles in Advance [10.1287/mnsc.2023.02245], Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4658750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.02245
 Not Available for Download
57 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Direct indirect sale of information
Econometrica , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 901 - 928 Posted: 1990
A Awyong
The role of disclosure in DeFi markets: evidence from Twitter Posted: 2022
J Bertomeu , X Martin , I Sall
Measuring Defi risk Posted: 2022
G Biglaiser
Middlemen as experts
RAND J. Econ , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 212 - 223 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies