Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputational spillovers within audit firm networks – Evidence from the Wirecard scandal

58 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 26 Mar 2025

Benedikt Downar

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Melanie Großeastroth

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Christopher Koch

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the spillover effects of auditor reputation within international audit firm networks following the involvement of a national member firm in a large-scale accounting scandal. While international audit firms position themselves as global brands with interconnected affiliates, they are typically structured as a set of legally independent members to limit joint liability. This setup raises the question of how vulnerable international audit firms are to reputational spillovers from an incident involving one of their members. To address this issue, we investigate the reputational impact of EY Germany’s involvement in the Wirecard scandal on EY’s European member firms. First, we observe negative short-term market reactions in response to the Wirecard scandal not only in Germany but across Europe. Second, we document long-term client reactions, showing that EY Germany is the most affected in terms of increased client losses and reduced client acquisitions. Importantly, we find that EY’s European affiliates also face difficulties in attracting new clients, particularly in countries bordering Germany, suggesting that the proximity to EY Germany plays an important role. We also observe that both EY Germany and EY’s European affiliates engage in reputation repair by means of improved audit quality. Overall, we find that a high-profile audit failure has the potential to trigger reputational spillovers within international audit firm networks.

Keywords: Auditor reputation, Audit firm network, Accounting scandal

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Downar, Benedikt and Großeastroth, Melanie and Koch, Christopher, Reputational spillovers within audit firm networks – Evidence from the Wirecard scandal (March 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4664579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4664579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 98 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2022
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Is audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG "steal the exam" scandal
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
Abschlussprüferaufsichtsstelle
Posted: 2023-04-03
S Arons , E Henning
Posted: 2020-06-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
330,157
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies