Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rules and the Labor Market for Accountants

97 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Anthony Le

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

In this study, I explore how accounting rules—in particular the restrictiveness of GAAP—have impacted the labor market for accountants. I find that when the rules become more restrictive, there are fewer students majoring in accounting and fewer accountants and auditors overall. The overall number of accounting positions that firms recruit for does not decrease when the rules become more restrictive; however, the nature of accountants’ work changes. There is less focus on tasks such as applying judgment, thinking creatively, and thinking critically and more focus on determining compliance. Despite the decrease in accountants, earnings for accountants do not increase, and the wage distribution becomes more compressed. I supplement these analyses with a survey-based field experiment and find that the salience of restrictiveness heightens students’ views of accounting as a profession where they are unable to use creative and critical thinking. Overall, the findings suggest that restrictive regulation can shift the task content of occupations and reduce the pool of individuals interested in the profession.

Keywords: Accountants, GAAP, Restrictiveness, Regulation, CPA, Intrinsic Motivation

JEL Classification: I21, J2, J24, J28, K2, L51, M4

Suggested Citation:

Le, Anthony, Accounting Rules and the Labor Market for Accountants (December 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4666335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Katharine Abraham , James Spletzer
New evidence on the returns to job skills
American Economic Review , volume 99 , p. 52 - 57 Posted: 2009
Daron Acemoglu , David Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
Daron Acemoglu , Pascual Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
Aicpa
Plan to accelerate talent pipeline solutions Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
932
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,993
RANK
57,677
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies