Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Auditor, Knowledge Transfer, and Audit Quality: International Evidence

Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Siwen Fu

International Institute of Finance, School of Management, University of Science and Technology of China

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms affiliated with a business group, we investigate the audit quality of common auditors, i.e., auditors shared by multiple firms affiliated with the same business group. We argue that common auditors can facilitate knowledge transfer among auditees within the same business group, thereby improving audit quality. Our findings demonstrate that audit quality improves for firms that share the same auditor with other firms in the same business group. Importantly, cross-country analyses reveal that this relation is stronger when auditors operate in countries with stricter local auditor inspection programs and in countries with an average opaque information environment. In addition, we observe that the impact of common auditors on audit quality is more pronounced for group affiliates that have a more firm-level opaque information environment, are audited by lower fee-dependence, belong to the pyramid structure group.

Keywords: Audit quality; business group; common auditor; international accounting

JEL Classification: F23; G15; G38; M42; N20

Suggested Citation:

Fu, Siwen and Kim, Jeong-Bon, Common Auditor, Knowledge Transfer, and Audit Quality: International Evidence (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4670405
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies