Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Gender and Audit Fees: Malaysian Evidence

17 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Noraizan Ripain

Universiti Malaysia Sabah

Wan Nordin Wan-Hussin

Universiti Utara Malaysia - College of Business

'Atef Mohd Md Yusof

Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM)

Date Written: September 25, 2023

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines the relationship between auditor gender and audit fees. Additionally, the paper also examines the moderating impact of audit firm types, i.e., Big4 and non-Big4 on the relationship between auditor gender and audit fees.

Design/methodology/approach – This study uses a sample of 188 companies with ESG Ratings listed on Bursa Malaysia for the year 2019.

Findings – The results show that auditor gender has a highly positive significant relationship with audit fees. This suggests that the female auditor gender for Malaysian firms with ESG ratings charge higher audit fees than the male auditor gender. In addition, further additional analysis reveals that there is a significant positive association between the female auditor and audit fees for Big4 firms. This indicates that Big4 female auditors exert more efforts and spend more audit hours when auditing Big4 clients than non-Big4 clients.

Practical implications – Regulators, investors and other stakeholders should realise the role played by female auditors in ensuring and sustaining the audit quality. Indeed, their roles should not be underestimated. Therefore, the audit firms may consider reducing the huge gap of gender diversity or disparity in the gender composition of audit partners, and any impediments that prevent talented and motivated female auditors from staying on with the audit firm should be eliminated.

Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this study is one of the first to examine the relationship between auditor gender and audit fees in emerging countries. Besides, this study investigates the moderating impact of audit firm types, i.e., Big4 firms and non-Big4 firms on the relationship between auditor gender and audit fees, which to our knowledge, this issue has not been address.

Keywords: Audit fees, Audit quality, Auditor gender, Emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Ripain, Noraizan and Wan-Hussin, Wan Nordin and Md Yusof, 'Atef Mohd, Audit Gender and Audit Fees: Malaysian Evidence (September 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
D S Abdelrazik
The determinants of audit fees and report lag: A comparative study of Egypt and the UK. 1-290 Posted: 2017
A C Ahmad , R Shafie , N Z M Yusof
The provision of non-audit services, audit fees and auditor independence
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2006
I Alexeyeva
Individual auditor competences and the pricing of audit services
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 218 Posted: 2019
A Alzeban , N Sawan
The relationship between adherence of internal audit with standards and audit fees
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 85 Posted: 2016
Load more
2 Citations
Javad Oradi , Naser Makarem , Reza Hesarzadeh
Do female audit partners matter for audit quality? Evidence from Iran
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 59 , p. 100706 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Javad Oradi , Naser Makarem , Reza Hesarzadeh
Do female audit partners matter for audit quality? Evidence from Iran
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 23 May 2025 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
470,088
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies