Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Delay: Complexity of Company Operations as Moderation Variable

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.4 (2023)

16 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Karlina Johansyah

University of Muhammadiyah Malang

Firda Ayu

University of Muhammadiyah Malang

Novitasari Agus Saputri

University of Muhammadiyah Malang

Agung Prasetyo Nugroho Wicaksono

University of Muhammadiyah Malang

Date Written: December 25, 2023

Abstract

Financial statements are the most critical information for the company. Therefore, the submission of financial statements must be timely so that the information provided remains reliable and appropriate. Data on the Indonesia Stock Exchange shows that many companies still submit their financial statements yearly late. This study aims to empirically determine the effect of financial distress, company size, and audit opinion on audit delay, as well as the complexity of company operations as moderating the effect of financial distress, company size, and audit opinion on audit delay. The research method used is the quantitative method. This research was conducted on manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) from 2018-2022. Samples were taken by 285 companies using purposive sampling techniques. Data collection techniques are using literature study and documentation. The data analysis technique used is a panel data regression model using STATA 14.2 as a data analysis tool. The results of the analysis stated that financial distress and auditor opinion did not affect audit delay, while company size had an impact on audit delay. The complexity of the company's operations can moderate the relationship between audit opinion and audit delay. In contrast, the complexity of the company's operations cannot moderate the relationship between financial distress and company size to money delay.

Keywords: Audit Delay, Financial Distress, Company Size, Audit Opinion, Complexity of Company Operations

Suggested Citation:

Johansyah, Karlina and Ayu, Firda and Saputri, Novitasari Agus and Wicaksono, Agung Prasetyo Nugroho, Audit Delay: Complexity of Company Operations as Moderation Variable (December 25, 2023). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.4 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
I Adiraya , N Sayidah
Pengaruh Ukuran Perusahaan, Profitabilitas, Solvabilitas, dan Opini Auditor Terhadap Audit Delay [The Influence of Company size, Profitability, Solvency, and Audit Opinion on Audit Delay]
Jurnal Analisa Akuntansi Dan Perpajakan , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 109 Posted: 2018
A Apriani , S Suharti
Analisis Faktor-Faktor yang Mempengaruhi Audit Delay Pada Perusahaan LQ45 yang Terdaftar di Bursa Efek Indonesia Periode 2013-2017 [Anlysis of Factors Affecting Audit Delay in LQ45 Companies Listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange for the 2013-2017 Period]. Kurs : Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 4 , p. 244 - 257 Posted: 2019
Dewi Astuti , C Nainggolan , L Dermawan Sembiring
Audit Delay : Influencing Factors (Case Study Of Large Trading Companies On The Indonesia Stock Exchange For The Period 2017 -2021)
International Journal of Science , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 1540 - 1548 Posted: 2022
W Bani Adam , P Purnamasari , R Hartanto
Pengaruh Kondisi Keuangan, Kompleksitas Operasi dan Umur Perusahaan terhadap Audit Report Lag , volume 2 , p. 143 - 152 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,668
RANK
841,621
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Industrial & Organizational Psychology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies