Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Evolving Gender Disparities in Auditing

36 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024 Last revised: 21 Apr 2025

Jade Huayu Chen

Loyola Marymount University

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Jayanthi Sunder

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Date Written: February 24, 2025

Abstract

Both popular media and academic research have long asserted that the Big 4 audit firms (“the firms”) are “boys clubs” that fail to equitably retain and promote female auditors. Recently mandated Form-AP disclosures have reignited interest in gender disparities at the firms by revealing that, despite their explicit commitments to gender equity, only a small proportion of their public company engagements are led by female audit partners. We use newly available data on nearly 150 thousand rank-and-file auditors to show that these assertions about gender disparities at the firms were historically accurate. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, female auditors faced lower retention and promotion rates than their male counterparts. These disparities were even more pronounced in auditing than in most other financial services professions. However, we also show that these disparities narrowed among auditors during the mid 2010s and reversed by the late 2010s. Indeed, we present evidence which suggests that from the late 2010s through the end of our sample period in 2023, it was male auditors who were at higher risk of leaving the firms and faced lower probabilities of promotion conditional on staying. The absence of a similar reversal in retention rates for other financial services professions during the same period bolsters our conclusion that the trends observed are not driven by broader industry or labor market factors.

All the code used to create this paper is publicly available at https://github.com/njhallman/Gender-public.

Keywords: gender, auditing, retention and promotion

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jade and Hallman, Nicholas and Sunder, Jayanthi,

Evolving Gender Disparities in Auditing

(February 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information Dispersion across Employees and Stock Returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , p. 4785 - 4831 Posted: 2021
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Diversity and Career Trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn Data on Race, Ethnicity, and Gender in Auditing
The Accounting Review Forthcoming Posted: 2025
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do Auditors Recognize the Potential Dark Side of Executives' Accounting Competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
The Organizational Embedding of Gender Relations in Public Audit Firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
155,190
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies