Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Liability Exposure for Negligence and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from the Audit Interference Rule

54 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Wei Zhang

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: January 3, 2024

Abstract

We examine how the shifting of legal liability between auditors and clients affects financial reporting quality. We exploit the state level adoption and rejection of a common law doctrine, the Audit Interference Rule (AIR), which shifts legal liability between auditors and clients, while not affecting total legal liability. The likelihood of restatements declines following staggered rejections of the AIR that shift risk to clients. Path analysis indicates that audit fees increase following AIR rejections, suggesting that relatively greater liability exposure for clients leads to a greater demand for assurance services that, in turn, reduces the likelihood of restatements. We further find greater improvements in financial reporting quality following the rejections of the AIR among clients with higher litigation risk and larger clients. Broadly, we provide novel evidence that client’s incentives relating to increased liability exposure appear to dominate auditor’s disincentives relating to decreased liability exposure on financial reporting quality.

Keywords: liability exposure, negligence liability, financial reporting, auditor-client relationship

JEL Classification: K15, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and Park, Hyun Jong and Zhang, Wei, Relative Liability Exposure for Negligence and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from the Audit Interference Rule (January 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4682881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D Aobdia , R Petacchi
The Effect of Audit Firm Internal Inspections on Auditor Effort and Financial Reporting Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 189 - 209 Posted: 1968
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
N B Arnoff , S C Jacobs
Professional Liability; Accountant's Malpractice, Part 2: Client Interference
Responsibility. New York Law Journal Posted: 2006-01-31
Load more
1 Citations
Xingqiang Du , Lirong Shentu , Yuhui Xie
The Shadow of Peer Death: Evidence from Audit Office
29 Pages · Posted: 16 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 7 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,063
RANK
217,471
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies