Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Scrutiny by Plaintiffs’ Lawyers Associated with Audit Outcomes?

Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Myojung Cho

Pace University

Feiqi Huang

Pace University

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Xin Luo

Marquette University

Date Written: January 3, 2024

Abstract

Kartapanis and Yust (2022) propose the number of views of the SEC filings by plaintiffs’ lawyers of security class actions as an ex ante measure of litigation and find that views are positively associated with future litigations and case outcomes. We empirically evaluate the validity of the views measure in the auditing context. In comparison to the existing measures of litigation risk- the high litigation industry indicator and the Kim and Skinner (2012) measure, we find that only the measures based on the number of views are consistently and significantly associated with audit fees, going concern opinion, and auditor resignation. Further, when we include views along with the two existing measures in the model at the same time, only the measures based on the views are significant, indicating that the number of views is incrementally informative about the three audit outcomes. We also find similar results in cross-sectional tests based on auditor types and litigation likelihood. A one standard deviation increase in the number of views increases audit fees by about 14 to 19 percent, the likelihood of going concern opinions by about 16 to 17 percent, and the likelihood of auditor resignation by about 23 to 30 percent. The incremental contribution of the measures based on the views over the extant measures supports the notion that the plaintiffs' lawyers are aware of material, adverse information that is not yet public. Our findings are relevant to researchers and practitioners interested in examining the impact of litigation on audit phenomena as well as in settings where litigation risk is a control variable.

Keywords: Litigation, plaintiff lawyer, audit fees, going concern, auditor resignation, EDGAR.

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Myojung and Huang, Feiqi and Krishnan, Gopal and Luo, Xin, Is Scrutiny by Plaintiffs’ Lawyers Associated with Audit Outcomes? (January 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682450
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies