Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competence: Does the Presence of Consultants from Services Other than Big-4 Improve or Compromise the Assurance of Quality Sustainability Reporting?

Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Orlando Castellanos Polo

Corporación Universitaria Americana

Date Written: July 20, 2023

Abstract

n the business field, consulting firms in the environmental sustainability service are currently executed by audit firms called the Big Four. Established internationally with membership on each of the continents. which carry out the consultancy of the companies listed on the stock exchange, the work of the orders includes elements of the sustainability indicators, as well as the delivery of the report with the respective opinion, therefore, the objective of the work is to determine the situation current sustainability consulting market and its relationship with sustainability reports based on quality, the applied methodology consisted of collecting data from companies and consulting firms, consistent with the descriptive analytical method.

Keywords: Audit, Audit firms, Business market, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Castellanos Polo, Orlando, Competence: Does the Presence of Consultants from Services Other than Big-4 Improve or Compromise the Assurance of Quality Sustainability Reporting? (July 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4695979
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies