Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditee Merger, Audit Fees,and the Market Dominance of Big Four Accounting Firms

47 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2024

Fayez A. Elayan

Brock University-Goodman School of Business

Kareen Brown

Brock University

Parunchana Pacharn

Brock University

Yijia Chen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Jennifer Li

Brock University

Date Written: January 19, 2024

Abstract

The market dominance of the Big-Four accounting firms (BIG4) has drawn attention from the public, regulators, and researchers. The market power of the BIG4 can have an impact of their audit quality, independence, and their power to increase the fees. In this paper, we examine how and whether the auditors adjust their fees in response focus the mergers of their clients. We argue that the mergers result in lower audit costs and higher market power, which allow us to understand how auditors might adjust their fees in response to the changes in their costs and market power. In addition, we investigate whether the auditor might perform a role of an information intermediary in the merger transactions, as suggested in prior literature. We find no evidence to support the cost savings hypothesis. The post-merger fees increase overall, indicating that the auditors do not pass on any cost savings to the clients, although the changes in fee respond to some factors related to cost savings. Our results overall suggest that the post-merger fees increase with the market power of the auditor, especially for the BIG4 auditors. Finally, we find no evidence, as reflected in changes in audit fees, to suggest that the auditor acts in the capacity of an information intermediary.

Keywords: Big Four Accounting Firms, Auditors, Market Concentration, Auditee Mergers, Audit Fee

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Elayan, Fayez A. and Brown, Kareen and Pacharn, Parunchana and Chen, Yijia and Li, Jingyu, Auditee Merger, Audit Fees,and the Market Dominance of Big Four Accounting Firms (January 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4700711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4700711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper , Q Lian , Q Wang
Common advisers in mergers and acquisitions: Determinants and consequences
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 691 - 740 Posted: 2013
Audit Analytics
Audit Firm Market Share Posted: 2022
J Bena , K Li
Corporate innovations and mergers and acquisitions
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 1923 - 1960 Posted: 2014
K L Bills , D C Jeter , S E Stein
Auditor industry specialization and evidence of cost efficiencies in homogenous industries
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 5 , p. 1721 - 1754 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
397,014
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies