Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Female Lead Auditors Charge a Fee Premium? Evidence from the UK Audit Market

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2024

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Noel O'Sullivan

Loughborough University - School of Business and Economics

Frank Kwabi

De Montfort University

Mark Holmes

Coventry University

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

Existing research documents a fee premium for female partner led audits (Ittonen & Peni, 2012; Hardies et al., 2015; Burke et al., 2019; Lee et al., 2019; Hardies et al., 2021). We take this work forward by investigating a possible justification for the observed premium by examining how auditor gender is related to audit report lag and whether the female partner audit fee premium is driven by audit report lag. We find that firms audited by a female lead auditor have a significantly shorter audit report lag but pay a significantly higher audit fee. In further analysis, we find that the fee premium for a female partner led audits is higher for clients receiving a more timely audit opinion. Our findings are consistent with female lead auditors delivering more timely audits and audit clients being prepared to pay a premium for such timeliness. Our study extends our understanding of the importance of gender in the auditing process and the value clients see in audits led by female auditors. Given the relatively low proportion of female lead auditors, our findings should also encourage audit firms to appreciate the economic value of female lead auditors and to actively facilitate their progression to senior roles.

Keywords: auditor gender, audit timeliness, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews and O'Sullivan, Noel and Kwabi, Frank and Holmes, Mark, Why Do Female Lead Auditors Charge a Fee Premium? Evidence from the UK Audit Market (January 8, 2024). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4700467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
M Alhadab , I Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
R H Ashton , P R Graul , J D Newton
Audit delay and the timeliness of corporate reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 657 - 673 Posted: 1989
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis , volume 12 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
RANK
724,701
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies