Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resistance to Adopting Emerging Technologies in External Auditing: An Exploration of Auditors’ Perceptions

46 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Lazarus Fotoh

Karlstad University - Karlstad University Business School

Tatenda Mugwira

University of Agder

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

Despite the growing use of emerging technologies by audit clients and recent calls from auditors to adopt emerging technologies in auditing, the audit profession has been slow to adopt emerging technologies. Drawing on survey data from 219 highly experienced audit partners and managers, this study adopted CFA/SEM to examine the factors affecting auditors’ resistance and slow adoption of emerging technologies in audits. Our findings reveal that switching cost, and satisfaction with the current audit software drive resistance to change. Meanwhile, perceived value, positive social influence and the frequency of emerging technology use reduces auditors’ resistance to change. Furthermore, perceived value, positive social influence, organizational support, and the frequency of emerging technology use positively affect the switch to emerging technologies, while satisfaction with the current software negatively affects the adoption of emerging technologies. This study contributes to the auditing literature by presenting a comprehensive perspective of the factors that account for auditors’ continuous resistance to emerging technologies and potential catalyst that enhances the adoption of emerging technologies. These findings should be beneficial to audit regulators, practitioners, and academics.

Keywords: Emerging technologies, resistance to change, Status Quo Bias Theory, auditors’ perceptions

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fotoh, Lazarus and Mugwira, Tatenda, Resistance to Adopting Emerging Technologies in External Auditing: An Exploration of Auditors’ Perceptions (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Favourate Y Mpofu , Queen Mpofu
The application of digital technologies in external auditing: a double edged sword?
International Journal of Business Ecosystem & Strategy (2687-2293) , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 39 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
RANK
436,942
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies