Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Client Compatibility and Audit Quality

72 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Mert Erinc

BI Norwegian Business School

Tzachi Zach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: October 07, 2024

Abstract

We develop a new auditor-client fit metric based on topical compatibility between auditors and their clients by combining the results of PCAOB inspections with clients’ disclosures of their critical accounting policies. We show that auditor fit is negatively related to several traditional audit quality proxies, including restatements, abnormal accruals, and the likelihood of an auditor missing a material weakness in internal controls. Moreover, we report that our new proxy performs better than traditional measures of auditor-client compatibility, such as over twenty versions of industry specialization. We document that auditor fit is positively associated with higher levels of real earnings management, consistent with stronger auditor oversight imposing higher costs on accrual earnings management. Our proxy demonstrates the importance of the results of PCAOB’s inspections, especially when combined with mandatory disclosures about companies’ critical accounting policies.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Auditor Compatibility, PCAOB Inspections, Critical Accounting Policies

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Erinc, Mert and Zach, Tzachi, Auditor-Client Compatibility and Audit Quality (October 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4703916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4703916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
L J Abbott , C M Boland , S M Mccarthy , L A Swenson
The Association between PCAOB Revenue-Deficient Audit Engagements and Revenue Quality
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2024
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
277,436
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies