Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor‐Client Reciprocity: Evidence from Firms’ Green Innovation and Common Auditors

54 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2024

Yunlin Tian

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jie Wu

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Academy of Mathematics and Systems Sciences

Xiaoguang Yang

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science (AMSS)

Abstract

This study investigates whether common auditors have an impact on firms’ green innovation. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms, we find the common auditor ties to firms with green patents are positively related to focal firms’ green innovation. When examining underlying mechanisms behind such effects, we observe that our main findings are more profound for focal firms with more opaque information, communicating with auditors intensively, which indicates information sharing serves as the plausible mechanism. Cross-sectionally, our findings are more remarkable for non-SOEs, firms with lower financial constraints, firms located in regions with environmental courts, local auditors, senior auditors, auditors with green auditing abilities and firms in the same industry. Further analysis suggests that the common auditor ties to firms with green patents can further improve focal firms’ environmental performance and green patent citations, which in turn boosts market share of involved audit firms. Overall, we document that common auditors have a positive spillover regarding green innovation to connected clients through transferring valuable green expertise in a legitimate way.

Keywords: Common auditors, Green innovation, Knowledge spillover

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Yunlin and Wu, Jie and Yang, Xiaoguang, Auditor‐Client Reciprocity: Evidence from Firms’ Green Innovation and Common Auditors. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4704905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4704905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
Corporate governance and green innovation
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 75 , p. 54 - 72 Posted: 2016
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
P Berrone , A Fosfuri , L Gelabert , L R Gomez-Mejia
Necessity as the mother of 'green' inventions: Institutional pressures and environmental innovations
Strategic Management Journal , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 891 - 909 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
487
RANK
461,979
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies