Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Audit Firm Mergers for Audit Quality: Partner-Level Evidence

48 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

John Goodwin

Corvinus University

Laszlo Lakatos

Corvinus University of Budapest

James Routledge

Hitotsubashi University

Serif Aziz Simsir

Sabanci University

Date Written: January 24, 2024

Abstract

We study the period around audit firm mergers, to investigate whether audit quality is related to audit partners’ pre-merger firm of origin. Partners from the largest pre-merger firms (big partners) are more likely to issue an unclean audit opinion in the merger year, but not partners from the smaller pre-merger firms (small partners) nor partners who are new to the merged firms (new partners). Big partners’ clients have no changes in the incidence of restatement errors and the absolute value of discretionary accruals in the post-merger period. There is only weak evidence of declines in audit quality for small and new partners’ clients in the post-merger period. Clients switch away from the newly merged firm when issued with a going concern opinion by a big partner in the merger year and the one after that, but not when these opinions are issued by a small or a new partner. Clients switching away are more likely to go to a Non-Big N shortly after the merger year. Audit firms have increases in median client portfolio size and decreases in median client audit fee ratios, but no changes in median client risk or profitability in the post-merger period. Newly merged audit firms lose a few clients after mergers, driven by fewer gains from the Non-Big N.

Keywords: audit firm merger, audit quality, audit partner

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Goodwin, John and Lakatos, Laszlo and Routledge, James and Simsir, Serif Aziz, The Consequences of Audit Firm Mergers for Audit Quality: Partner-Level Evidence (January 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4705063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4705063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
N M Ashkanasy , S Holmes
Perceptions of organizational ideology following merger: A longitudinal study of merging accounting firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 34 Posted: 1995
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The Effect of Audit Quality on Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
T B Bell , M Causholli , W R Knechel
Audit firm tenure, non-audit services, and internal assessments of audit quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
K L Bills , Q T Swanquist , R L Whited
Growing Pains: Audit Quality and Office Growth
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 288 - 313 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
720
RANK
560,422
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies