Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Air Pollution in the United States and Misstatements in Financial Reporting

52 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Jade Huayu Chen

Loyola Marymount University

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Dan Russomanno

Russomanno Research

Wenzi Zhuang

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 28, 2024

Abstract

We argue air pollution can jointly impede the quality of work performed by a client’s financial reporting personnel and its auditor. We exploit PM2.5 data from the Environmental Protection Agency and find a positive association between air pollution and misstatements in annual financial reports. Moreover, we find this association using a subsample where auditors must travel a significant distance to their client’s headquarters and accordingly, are more likely to be exposed to a change in air pollution. Finally, our main finding is more salient when both a client’s reporting personnel and its auditor are likely to be present on site, as well as in more complex engagements where the physical and cognitive demands placed on a client’s reporting personnel and its auditor are likely higher. We interpret this evidence as air pollution impeding the quality of work performed by a client’s reporting personnel, its auditor, or both.

Keywords: air pollution, audit quality, financial reporting quality, misstatements, restatements

JEL Classification: I10, M41, M42, Q53

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jade and Michas, Paul N. and Russomanno, Dan and Zhuang, Wenzi, Air Pollution in the United States and Misstatements in Financial Reporting (January 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4708848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4708848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
References Airvisual
World Most Polluted Countries Posted: 2020
J G Allen , P Macnaughton , U Satish , S Santanam , J Vallarino , J D Spengler
Associations of cognitive function scores with carbon dioxide, ventilation, and volatile organic compound exposures in office workers: a controlled exposure study of green and conventional office environments
Environmental Health Perspectives , volume 124 , issue 6 , p. 805 - 812 Posted: 2016
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
J Archsmith , A Heyes , S Saberian
Air quality and error quantity: Pollution and performance in a high-skilled, quality-focused occupation
Journal of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 827 - 863 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
429,779
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies