Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Key Audit Matter Disclosure and Investor Information Acquisition

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

56 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024 Last revised: 28 Oct 2024

Deqiu Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Nian Liu

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Xuejiao Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Xin Wang

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: January 30, 2024

Abstract

Leveraging the unique data on corporate site-visit reports, we examine whether the mandatory disclosure of key audit matter (KAM) affects investor information acquisition. Based on machine reading and textual analysis, we find a 27 percent increase in the percentage of KAM-related site-visit questions post the mandate. When KAM is decomposed into common and idiosyncratic component, the increase is driven by the latter. We further show KAM-inquiring analysts during site visits tend to incorporate KAM information in their research reports, and their EPS forecasts are also more accurate. Finally, the impact of the mandate on investor information acquisition is more pronounced for firms with higher investor information demand, and those audited by high-quality auditors. Collectively, our study suggests mandatory KAM disclosure aids investor information acquisition and improves information production.

Keywords: Key audit matter (KAM), idiosyncratic KAM information, investor information acquisition, corporate site visit, machine learning

JEL Classification: M42, M48, G14, G17

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Deqiu and Liu, Nian and Liu, Xuejiao and Martin, Xiumin and Wang, Xin, Mandatory Key Audit Matter Disclosure and Investor Information Acquisition (January 30, 2024). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4709636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4709636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
E Cheynel , C B Levine
Public disclosures and information asymmetry: A theory of the mosaic
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 99 Posted: 2020
H Y Chi , C L Chin
Firm versus partner measures of auditor industry expertise and effects on auditor quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 229 Posted: 2011
Chinese Standard on Auditing 1504: Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor's Report Posted: 2016
B E Christensen , S M Glover , C J Wolfe
Do critical audit matter paragraphs in the audit report change nonprofessional investors' decision to invest?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 71 - 93 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
205,565
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies