Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Gender Composition of Audit Teams Matter? An Examination of Audit Quality and Audit Cost

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

75 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Joshua Khavis

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Brandon Szerwo

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

We examine the relation between the gender composition of audit teams and two important audit outcomes—audit quality and audit fees. We identify gender composition across auditor ranks with novel audit-office level data for 20 large U.S. public accounting firms from 2010 to 2018. We find engagements of audit offices with more female auditors are associated with higher audit quality and lower audit fees. We find the association between gender composition and audit outcomes is strongest at the staff level, and audit seniors in particular. Results are also stronger in offices with more supportive workplace environments. Overall, the large-scale evidence in our study provides important insights on the role of gender composition within audit teams.

Keywords: Audit quality, female auditors, audit fees, audit teams, human capital, audit partners, gender composition

JEL Classification: G28, G38, J1, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Khavis, Joshua and Sheneman, Amy and Szerwo, Brandon, Does Gender Composition of Audit Teams Matter? An Examination of Audit Quality and Audit Cost (June 25, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4710631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
147 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
K Ahern , A Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
The turnover, retention, and career advancement of female and racial minority auditors: Evidence from individual LinkedIn data Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
210,213
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies