Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Cherish Their Feathers? Empirical Evidence from an Administrative Penalty Against an Audit Firm

45 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2024

Kexin Zhang

Shihezi University

Danglun Luo

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Pengfei Gao

Swansea University - School of Management

Abstract

This paper examines whether the administrative penalty decisions made by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) against audit firms from 2008 to 2018 influence listed companies to engage in audit firm rotation spontaneously. Our findings reveal that companies with a financing motivation and a high reputation will leave the penalized audit firm, while companies with closer audit firm-client relationships tend to maintain cooperation. Further research shows that the opportunities for companies to change from penalized audit firms are affected by property rights, management earnings level, and punishment intensity. Moreover, the cooperation between the company with a close relationship with the penalized audit firm harms its accounting information quality and accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Audit firm change, Administrative penalty, Financing Constraints, Corporate reputation, Client relationship

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Kexin and Luo, Danglun and Gao, Pengfei, Do Firms Cherish Their Feathers? Empirical Evidence from an Administrative Penalty Against an Audit Firm. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4717476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4717476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB Talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports of Small Auditors
Auditing-a Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
S C Asthana , S Balsam , J Krishnan
Corporate governance, audit firm reputation, auditor switches, and client stock price reactions: The Andersen experience
International Journal of Auditing , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 274 - 293 Posted: 2010
M Athavale , Z Guo , Y Meng , T Zhang
Diversity of signing auditors and audit quality: Evidence from capital market in China
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 78 , p. 554 - 571 Posted: 2022
S Azzali , T Mazza , F Alberto
Effects of disclosed audit sanctions on audit firm's market share in Italy and Spain, Accounting and Finance , volume 61 , p. 2477 - 2505 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
RANK
849,077
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies