Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where do Auditors Seek Advice? Perspectives from Social Status and Social Capital

45 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

D. James Zhang

University of Galway - J.E. Cairnes School of Business & Economics

Dennis Veltrop

University of Groningen

Reggy Hooghiemstra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Floor Rink

University of Groningen

Date Written: February 6, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the contributing factors of auditors’ advice seeking behaviors, using an egocentric network design that is typical in social network analysis. Drawing theoretical framework from emergence of advice network, we identify two important mechanisms for advice seeking, i.e., social status and social capital. By operationalizing the egocentric network in a multilevel analysis, we find that, across the board, auditors seek more advice from advisors with higher status, and seek less advice from advisors with lower status. This result provides evidence for social status. However, we find that as social capital increases, auditors also increasingly seek advice from advisors with lower status. Taken together, our results provide support for the external validity of the theoretical framework on the emergence of advice networks: although social status plays an important role that could potentially hinder mutual knowledge sharing, social capital can mitigate this effect. Our findings have important implications for audit firms to design effective and efficient audit teams.

Keywords: Auditor interactions; knowledge sharing; advice seeking network; social status; social capital

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M42; M14; J82

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, James and Veltrop, Dennis and Hooghiemstra, Reggy and Rink, Floor, Where do Auditors Seek Advice? Perspectives from Social Status and Social Capital (February 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4718350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4718350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
F Agneessens , R Wittek
Where do intra-organizational advice relations come from? The role of informal status and social capital in social exchange
Social Networks , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 345 Posted: 2012
G Ahuja
Collaboration networks, structural holes, and innovation: A longitudinal study
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 455 Posted: 2000
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
L M Andiola , J C Bedard
Delivering the "tough message": Moderators of subordinate auditors' reactions to feedback
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 70 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
653,956
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Interorganizational Networks & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies