Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Staff Satisfaction and Audit Quality: Evidence From the Private Client Market Segment

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

59 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2024

Peter Carey

Deakin University

Brigitte Eierle

University of Bamberg

Sven Hartlieb

University of Innsbruck

Date Written: February 13, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between audit staff satisfaction (measured by crowdsourced employer reviews) and audit quality in the private client setting. In this setting, extrinsic incentives to provide high quality audits – such as regulatory enforcement, reputational pressure, and litigation costs – are less pronounced than for listed client audits. We find audit staff satisfaction, an important intrinsic motivational factor, is positively and significantly associated with audit quality in the private client setting. Consistent with prior research, we find no significant association between staff satisfaction and audit quality for listed clients. The significant association in the private client setting primarily applies to non-Big 4 firms, for which extrinsic factors play a less influential role than for Big 4 firms. Moreover, we show staff satisfaction moderates possible negative effects of conditions, such as the provision of non-audit services and longer audit tenure, which may pressure auditors to compromise audit quality. Overall, these findings provide new insights about the influence of audit input factors on audit quality.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Audit Quality, Employee Satisfaction, Private Firms

JEL Classification: J28, M14, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Carey, Peter and Eierle, Brigitte and Hartlieb, Sven, Audit Staff Satisfaction and Audit Quality: Evidence From the Private Client Market Segment (February 13, 2024). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4725298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
S Asthana , I Khurana , K K Raman
Fee competition among Big 4 auditors and audit quality
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 52 , p. 403 - 438 Posted: 2019
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
C Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
614,410
2 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies