Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misleading the Auditor with Fractional Truths

45 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2024

Mary Durkin

University of San Diego

S. Jane (Kennedy) Jollineau

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Sarah C Lyon

University of San Diego

Date Written: February 16, 2024

Abstract

This descriptive study examines the nature and rationalization of deception by client management when communicating with the external auditor. We placed experienced financial reporting professionals in the role of a CFO responding to an auditor inquiry. Participants chose one of four responses: the complete truth, clear mistruth, or one of two “fractional truths” (i.e., a response that is technically true but omits or is vague about relevant information). More than half of the participants chose a deceptive response, with the most common type of deceptive response chosen being a fractional truth. Many participants rationalized their deceptive responses as strictly responding to the question asked and not speculating about the unknown. Most participants who responded deceptively preferred email for communication while those who responded truthfully preferred in-person communication. We discuss the implications of client deception for audit firms and offer suggestions for future research.

Keywords: deception, fractional truth, mislead, auditor inquiry, auditor-client interactions, financial statement misstatements, omission

Suggested Citation:

Durkin, Mary and Kennedy Jollineau, S. Jane and Lyon, Sarah C, Misleading the Auditor with Fractional Truths (February 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4729283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4729283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
383,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies