Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Labor Market Power in the Audit Profession

53 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Qin Li

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Ke Na

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Hong Wu

Fudan University

Date Written: February 20, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the influence of labor market power in the audit profession. Using a dataset of online job postings, we confirm that audit offices in more concentrated labor markets have greater labor market power and exercise it in the form of higher skill requirements and greater required effort from their auditors, at similar or slightly lower wages. We then show that client firms of audit offices in more concentrated labor markets are less likely to restate their earnings and have lower absolute discretionary accruals. These findings are only present when employees have lower mobility across professions and geographies, consistent with audit offices’ power in the local labor market explaining the results. Collectively, our findings highlight the importance of labor market power in understanding audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Profession, Labor Market Power, Monopsony and Oligopsony, Wages, Skills, Effort, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: J31, J40, J42, M42, M55

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Li, Qin and Na, Ke and Wu, Hong, The Influence of Labor Market Power in the Audit Profession (February 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4732093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4732093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Daniel Aobdia , Robert Carnes , Kevin Munch
The Role of High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Labor in Shaping U.S. Startup Outcomes
52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2024 · Last revised: 9 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 273
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,619
RANK
108,566
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies