Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Uncertain Tax Position Reserves Around the Purchase of Auditor Provided Tax Services

50 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2024

Brayden D. Bulloch

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Max Pflitsch

Technical University of Dortmund

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 09, 2024

Abstract

Recent global audit failures combined with audit firms’ renewed focus on growing their consulting practices has increased regulatory attention on the impact of non-audit services on audit quality. In this study, we examine uncertain tax position reserves during the period prior to and immediately after a client purchases non-audit services for the first time from the auditor. We argue that audit firms could benefit from being overly skeptical of the tax planning of audit clients that do not purchase tax services because it increases the likelihood that the client will seek future tax advice from the auditor. Consistent with this argument, we find that companies report increases in tax reserves in the year before they begin purchasing auditor provided tax services (APTS). We also find that the tax reserve effects reverse after the client begins purchasing APTS. Consistent with incentives to sell APTS and inconsistent with a knowledge spillover effect, the increase and consequent decrease in tax reserves after purchasing APTS is driven by discretionary tax reserves and tax positions taken in prior periods. Furthermore, we find that this behavior reduces the accuracy of tax reserves implying a reduction in the quality of income tax information. Overall, the results are consistent with auditors influencing firms’ accounting for uncertain tax positions in a manner consistent with incentives to sell their own tax advisory services, which potentially impairs auditor independence and reduces accounting quality.

Keywords: Auditor independence, Non-audit services, auditor provided tax services, tax reserves, uncertain tax positions

Suggested Citation:

Bulloch, Brayden and Lynch, Dan and Pflitsch, Max and Schroeder, Joseph H., An Examination of Uncertain Tax Position Reserves Around the Purchase of Auditor Provided Tax Services (February 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4733684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
N Alsadoun , V Naiker , F Navissi , D S Sharma
Auditor-Provided Tax Nonaudit Services and the Implied Cost of Equity Capital
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
L M Beale
Putting SEC Heat on Audit Firms and Corporate Tax Shelters: Responding to Tax Risk with Sunshine, Shame and Strict Liability
Journal of Corporation Law , volume 29 Posted: 2003
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
RANK
454,090
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies