Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small audit firms’ public market exits, business model changes, and market consequences

55 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2024

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Mary S. Stone

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Date Written: February 24, 2024

Abstract

From 2003-2018 approximately 60 percent of small PCAOB registered audit firms de-registered, thereby shrinking the number of small firms available to audit small SEC registrants. We address the following research questions. Why did these firms de-register? What happens to them after de-registration? What happens to clients of de-registering firms? Using logistic regression, we estimate a model based on a theory of competitive viability to distinguish the characteristics of companies that maintain registration from those that do not. Firms that have more resources, higher client retention and growth, and a risk-mitigating form of governance are more likely to maintain registrations. Firms experiencing more lawsuits and receiving more negative signals of audit quality (PCAOB inspection findings and orders) are more likely to de-register. We find no evidence that three PCAOB rules that became effective during our test period incentivized de-registration. We document the business choices of de-registering firms: continue providing services other than public company audits, liquidate, or merge with another public firm. Estimation of a multinomial logit model shows that firms receiving the most negative audit quality signals are more likely to liquidate. Those receiving the least are more likely to merge. Using regression analysis, we find that clients of de-registering firms pay higher audit fees to registered successors but average audit quality (measured as misstatements) does not improve. We also find evidence that de-registering firms that merged with other PCAOB-registered firms charged higher fees and provided higher audit quality relative to other de-registering firms. In sum, our results contribute to the literature by providing evidence that small audit firms consider PCAOB audit quality signals as well as other indicators of their competitive viability in deciding whether to de-register from the PCAOB, as well as in de-registering firms’ business model choices. Our results also provide evidence of the effectiveness of PCAOB monitoring through inspections and disciplinary orders in motivating lower quality small auditors to exit the public audit market.

Keywords: Small audit firms; PCAOB de-registrations; public company audit market exits; private audit market; audit firm mergers; audit firm liquidations

Suggested Citation:

Ettredge, Michael L. and Mao, Juan and Stone, Mary S., Small audit firms’ public market exits, business model changes, and market consequences (February 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4737583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4737583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from shareholder reactions to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
G Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Audit Analytics. 2023. Who Audits Public Companies. Available at: www.AuditAnalytics.com
R Baskerville , D Hay
The effect of accounting firm mergers on the market for audit services
New Zealand Evidence. Abacus , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
795
RANK
502,214
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies