Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Joint Audit Have an Impact on Audit Quality: A Comparison Between Mandatory and Voluntary Regulation of Joint Audit

23 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

MD Tareq Hossain

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

The topic of audit quality is sparked in every financial crisis and scandal. Therefore, joint audit has been seen as crucial. This literature review investigates the impact of mandatory and voluntary joint audit and audit quality by addressing the potential influence of regulatory responses on agency problems. The review focuses on empirical quantitative studies, excluding audit fee-related research, to provide a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of mandatory joint audit on audit quality. By comparing the impact of mandatory and voluntary joint audit on audit quality, the review aims to aid auditors, regulators, and policymakers in making informed decisions regarding audit regulation and practice with future research recommendations. The result of this literature does not support the positive effect of joint audit in audit quality in compared to single audit but heterogeneous combinations of auditors may influence audit quality in mandatory joint audit regulations.

Keywords: Joint Audit, Big four joint audit, Audit Quality, Financial reporting quality, Earnings management, Earnings Quality

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, MD Tareq, Do Joint Audit Have an Impact on Audit Quality: A Comparison Between Mandatory and Voluntary Regulation of Joint Audit (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4740748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Al-Hadi , A Habib , K Al-Yahyaee , B Eulaiwi
Joint audit, political connections and cost of debt capital
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 249 - 270 Posted: 2017
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
J B Barney
Strategic Factor Markets: Expectations, Luck, and Business Strategy , volume 32 , p. 1231 - 1241 Posted: 1986
Ben Ali , A
Audit Quality, Joint-Auditors and Game Theory: Empirical Validation in the French Context
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 11 , issue 7 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
269,867
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies