Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Corruption and Auditor Change Decision: Evidence from China

38 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024

Yunlin Tian

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science (AMSS); University of Wollongong

Millicent Chang

University of Wollongong

Xiaofei Pan

University of Wollongong

Abstract

We investigate how auditors respond to the local political corruption. By taking the number of corruption convictions as the proxy for corruption, we find that Big 10 auditors and review auditors tend to switch clients more frequently to avoid potential litigation /reputation costs when their client firms headquartered in more corrupt provinces. The results are more pronounced in non-state-owned-enterprises (non-SOEs) and firms with higher business risk. Complementary evidence shows that these firms have both low accounting quality and low litigation risk especially for those audited by non-Big 10 auditors. More importantly, we find auditors' tendency to change clients are mitigated after the anti-corruption campaign. Overall, our suggests that auditors’ assessment of risk in provinces with more corruption convictions are subject to their size and degree of independence, where Big 10 auditors are more sensitive to potential risks while non-Big 10 auditors are more prone to government expropriation.

Keywords: political corruption, audit change decision, reputation and litigation, China

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Yunlin and Chang, Millicent and Pan, Xiaofei, Political Corruption and Auditor Change Decision: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4744040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4744040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
K Amin , D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor sentiment and audit opinion shopping
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
H Cai , H Fang , L Xu
Eat, drink, firms, government: an investigation of corruption from the entertainment and travel costs of Chinese firms
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 78 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
759,919
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies