Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners Skepticial Traits and Audit Quality

56 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Joanne Horton

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Dhanya Krishnakumar

Warwick University

Savvas Papadopoulos

Halmstad University - School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability (FIH)

A. Irem Tuna

London Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the influence of skeptical traits of audit partners on audit quality. Previous research, constrained by the inability to directly observe personality traits, has exclusively relied on experimental data, which does not fully capture the complexity of personality traits and potential contemporaneous environmental influences. Addressing this gap our study utilizes archival data, uniquely linking two strands of literatures and identifying audit partners with skeptical traits using the gender of their first-born. We validate our approach by demonstrating that audit partners with first-born daughters exhibit distinctive personality characteristics associated with skeptical traits. Using Swedish data and conducting both level and change analyses, we find these skeptical traits significantly enhance audit quality, even after controlling for other partner, audit firm and client characteristics. Overall, our findings underscore the importance of individual traits in both clientmatching and the audit process. Considering the influence of auditors' traits, we recommend that audit firms incorporate trait screening in their selection and promotion practices.

Keywords: G41, M42, skeptical traits, audit partner characteristics, audit quality

JEL Classification: G41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Joanne and Krishnakumar, Dhanya and Papadopoulos, Savvas and Tuna, Ayse Irem, Audit Partners Skepticial Traits and Audit Quality (January 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4745262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
R Adams , P Funk
Beyond the Glass Ceiling: Does Gender Matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
E Amir , J Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , Rouen E Andersson , G , Hank K Vikat , A
Financial statement errors: evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 135 - 155 Posted: 2007
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,348
RANK
446,627
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies