Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Auditors’ Unmet Promotion Expectations to Audit Quality

Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Bin Wu

Central China Normal University - School of Economics and Business Administration

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

Using proprietary data on the promotion of individual auditors in China, we examine whether auditors’ unmet promotion expectations shape audit quality. We employ a machine learning approach in constructing auditors’ unmet promotion expectations and rely on audit adjustments to measure audit quality. We document a negative relation between auditors’ unmet promotion expectations and the magnitude of audit adjustments. Reinforcing that audit quality suffers when auditors have unmet promotion expectations, cross-sectional results reveal that this relation is magnified when the auditor receives a lower salary, the auditor has stronger grounds to conclude that they have been treated unfairly, the auditor has a smaller social network that can limit their outside employment opportunities, the potential benefits of becoming an equity partner are larger, and the client is less valuable to the accounting firm. Additionally, auditors’ unmet promotion expectations exhibit a negative relation with audit effort, suggesting that this is a channel through which auditors’ unmet promotion expectations operates in influencing their performance. We also find that auditors’ unmet promotion expectations are positively associated with other audit quality proxies, including the client’s reporting of a small profit and abnormal accruals as well as the incidence of restatements and regulatory sanctions. Collectively, our evidence implies that unmet promotion expectations undermine auditors’ incentives, leading to lower audit quality.

Keywords: auditor promotion, unmet promotion expectations, audit quality, machine learning

JEL Classification: M12, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wu, Bin and Zhang, Min, The Importance of Auditors’ Unmet Promotion Expectations to Audit Quality (June 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4747125
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies