Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Auditors’ Behavioral Intention to Adopt Blockchain Technology in Bangladesh

The Cost and Management, 51(6), pp. 23-37, 2023

Posted: 22 Apr 2024

Md. Minhaj Uddin

Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University (JKKNIU)

Sabuj Chandra Bhowmik

Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University (JKKNIU)

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

Blockchain technology, widely embraced in various global business sectors since its inception, is, even now, in its preliminary phases of adoption in Bangladesh, especially within diverse fields such as auditing. This investigation aims to understand the constructs that instigate auditor’s willingness to adopt blockchain technology in audit professions in Bangladesh by using the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) theory. By employing the quantitative method and random sampling approach, the study considered 131 survey data collected from auditors at different levels in various audit firms in Bangladesh through a structured questionnaire. The Partial Least Squares-Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) was employed to evaluate the survey data. The findings of the study demonstrated that perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use positively and considerably influence the auditors’ attitudes to the blockchain solutions and their behavioral desires to accept the technology in performing audit functions. The results also confirmed the mediation effect of attitude on the relationships between perceived ease of use and behavioral intention to adopt, as well as between perceived usefulness and blockchain technology adoption. The results of the study provide valuable contributions to theoretical comprehension concerning the adoption of technological innovations as well as actionable insights for audit firms, professional bodies, and IT providers on the same issue

Keywords: Perceived Ease of Use, Perceived Usefulness, Auditors’ Attitudes, Adoption, Blockchain Technology

JEL Classification: M42, O32, O33

Suggested Citation:

Uddin, Md. Minhaj and Bhowmik, Sabuj Chandra, Analyzing Auditors’ Behavioral Intention to Adopt Blockchain Technology in Bangladesh (December 1, 2023). The Cost and Management, 51(6), pp. 23-37, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4748874
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies