Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Accountants be Afraid of AI? Risks and Opportunities of Incorporating Artificial Intelligence into Accounting and Auditing

Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons


Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons


Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons


20 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Nir Eisikovits

Suffolk University - College of Arts and Science

William C. Johnson

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Ariel J. Markelevich

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 1, 2024

Abstract

In recent years there has been an exponential rise in the use of artificial intelligence (AI) systems in the business world. AI has many current and potential uses in accounting and auditing. However, the introduction of AI comes with significant risks. In this paper, we explore the use of AI for repetitive and simple tasks, generative AI to produce new textual content, and predictive AI to help assess future risks. We then consider important aspects in the use of AI including data ownership, governance, and bias introduced by AI systems. We show how accounting and auditing professionals must understand these issues to effectively utilize AI. We also consider changes to the profession regarding the potential erosion of professional trust and the deskilling of the profession. In each case, we discuss how risks and adverse effects from AI can be mitigated by new standards and professional control of AI implementation.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, AI, Ethics

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eisikovits, Nir and Johnson, William C. and Markelevich, Ariel J., Should Accountants be Afraid of AI? Risks and Opportunities of Incorporating Artificial Intelligence into Accounting and Auditing (January 1, 2024). Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons
, Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons
, Accepted for publication in Accounting Horizons
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4748690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4748690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
American Institute of CPAs (AICPA)
Trends in the Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Accounting Recruits Posted: 2019
Dan Amiram , Bozanic , Ethan Zahn , Rouen
Financial statement errors: evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593
Deniz Appelbaum , Robert A Nehmer
Using Drones in Internal and External Audits: An Exploratory Framework
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting. Spring , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 113 Posted: 2017
N Bostrom
Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,759
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,524
RANK
22,797
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies