Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Superstition, Risk Aversion, and Audit Quality: Evidence from China

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming)

59 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2024

Huan Dou

Jinan University

Eunice Khoo

Australian National University (ANU)

Weiqiang Tan

The Education University of Hong Kong

Janus Jian Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: February 16, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether signing auditors’ perceptions of bad luck related to the Chinese zodiac-year superstition affect audit quality. We argue that these perceptions of bad luck heighten signing auditors’ sense of risk and lead them to act more cautiously in their zodiac years, leading to improved audit quality. We find that clients audited by lead engagement auditors in their zodiac years exhibit lower discretionary accruals and lower propensity to restate. The effects of zodiac-year superstition are evident among lead engagement auditors who are older and hold the partner title. The effects are also evident in large audit firms, which face greater reputation risk, and in provinces with a strong influence of traditional culture. In addition, we find some suggestive evidence that lead engagement auditors may increase audit effort during their zodiac years. Overall, our results support the contention that lead engagement auditors’ zodiac year beliefs positively affect audit quality.

Keywords: individual auditor; traditional culture; zodiac year; superstition; risk aversion; audit quality

JEL Classification: D81; M40; M42; Z10

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Huan and Khoo, Eunice and Tan, Weiqiang and Zhang, Janus Jian, Superstition, Risk Aversion, and Audit Quality: Evidence from China (February 16, 2024). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
E Amir , J P Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
S H Ang , W K Lai , S M Leong
The effects of superstition on choice and latency
Psychology & Marketing , volume 31 , issue 12 , p. 1074 - 1083 Posted: 2014
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
RANK
357,528
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies