Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Pressure Sources and Trait Variables on Skeptical Audit Judgments and Actions

30 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2024

Niels van Nieuw Amerongen

Nyenrode Business University

Stephen Kwaku Asare

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Joost van Buuren

Nyenrode Business University

Inez Verwey

Nyenrode Business University

Date Written: March 12, 2024

Abstract

Prior research proposes that auditors’ incentives and traits combine to affect the amount of professional skepticism in audit judgment and audit actions. We examine this proposition in an experimental setting by asking Dutch auditors to evaluate a potentially impaired asset amidst pressure to keep it on the books from either the engagement partner (obedience pressure) or former team members (conformity pressure). We also obtained measures of perceived client pressure, commitment (professional and organizational) and trait skepticism. The experimental results show that conformity and obedience pressures are positively associated with skeptical action and client pressure is positively associated with skeptical judgement. We also find that trait skepticism has a positive association with skeptical action. Taken together, our results show that auditors respond to pressure, regardless of source, by increasing the amount of professional skepticism in their judgments and actions. While this finding departs from prior research, it suggests that recent proactive regulatory actions, including labelling professional skepticism as an obligatory topic for permanent education, may be achieving their goals, at least when it comes to auditors’ resistance of social pressure.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Social Pressure, Trait Skepticism, Skeptical Judgments, Skeptical Actions

JEL Classification: G19

Suggested Citation:

van Nieuw Amerongen, Niels and Asare, Stephen Kwaku and van Buuren, Joost and Verwey, Inez, The Effect of Pressure Sources and Trait Variables on Skeptical Audit Judgments and Actions (March 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4756790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4756790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
L M Andiola , J C Bedard , K D Westermann
It's Not my Fault! Insights into Subordinate Auditors
Attributions and Emotions Following Audit Review. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 38 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
Auditor Scepticism: Raising the Bar
Uitkomsten onderzoek kwaliteit wettelijke controles Big 4accountantsorganisaties. 25 september. Available at: Structurele tekortkomingen bij grootste accountantsorganisaties, fundamentele hervormingen en cultuurverandering noodzakelijk | sep | AFM Professionals Posted: 2010-08
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' Identification with Their Clients and Its Effect on Auditors
Objectivity. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
M H Bazerman , D A Moore , P E Tetlock , L Tanlu
Reports of solving the conflicts of interest in auditing are highly exaggerated , volume 31 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
432,122
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies