Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Political Connections and SEC Oversight

52 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2024

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Meng Li

University of Texas at Arlington

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 2024

Abstract

We examine whether auditor political connections are associated with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) oversight of audit clients. Specifically, we test whether auditors’ Political Action Committee (PAC) contributions are associated with three SEC oversight actions: comment letters, investigations, and Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs). Consistent with higher political connections inducing heightened scrutiny from the SEC, we find that the clients of auditors with higher political connections are more likely to receive comment letters and face SEC investigations. However, conditional on SEC investigation, we find no association between auditor political connections and the issuance of AAERs. We consider heightened attention from investors and analysts towards audit clients as one possible mechanism leading to increased scrutiny because auditor political connections could be perceived as a red flag by market participants. Using EDGAR downloads and the number of earnings forecast revisions, we document evidence consistent with the existence of such a mechanism. These findings add to our understanding of how auditor political connections could influence SEC oversight over audit clients.

Keywords: Political connections, SEC oversight, SEC comment letters, SEC investigation, SEC enforcement, accounting firms

JEL Classification: C80; D72; G18; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Jagan and Li, Meng and Park, Hyun Jong, Auditor Political Connections and SEC Oversight (February 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4758528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4758528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , M Grady
Political connections and the trade-off between real and accrual-based earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 2730 - 2757 Posted: 2022
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
A Allen , K Ramanna , S Roychowdhury
Auditor lobbying on accounting standards
Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 331 Posted: 2018
D Aubin , D Ingram , S Lynch
Exclusive: Ernst & Young tightropes between audit
advocacy. Reuters Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
308,936
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies