Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drought Risk and Audit Pricing: A Mixed-Methods Study

Asian Review of Accounting, 10.1108/ARA-10-2023-0294

Posted: 14 May 2024

Amin Sarlak

University of Tehran

Mehdi Khodakarami

Monash University

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Jamal A. Nazari

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business

Fatemeh Taghimolla

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: March 24, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – Climate change has led to a rise in the frequency, intensity, and scope of droughts, posing significant implications for businesses. This study examines the impact of local community drought levels on audit pricing. Additionally, it explores the moderating effects of high-tech industries, the auditor’s busyness, and the level of local community concern regarding the drought crisis.

Design/methodology/approach – This study employs a mixed-methods approach to rigorously test the research hypotheses. The quantitative phase of the study utilizes a sample of 1,278 firm-year observations from Iran's capital market. For the analysis of the quantitative data, ordinary least squares regression with clustered robust standard errors is used. Additionally, this research supplements its quantitative findings with qualitative evidence obtained through semi-structured interviews with 19 Iranian audit partners.

Findings – The results suggest that firms operating in provinces facing severe droughts experience notably higher audit fees. Furthermore, the positive relationship between drought and audit fees is weakened when auditors are busy, local community concern regarding the drought crisis is high, or the firm operates within high-tech industries. These findings are supported by a range of robustness checks and qualitative evidence gathered from the field.

Originality/value – This research contributes to the growing literature on climate change by examining the influence of local community drought levels on audit pricing within an Iranian context. Additionally, our study sheds light on how high-tech industries, auditor workload, and the level of local community concern regarding the drought crisis moderate the relationship between drought and audit fees. Importantly, our study pioneers in providing mixed-methods evidence of the association between drought severity and audit fees.

Keywords: Drought, Climate Change, Audit Risk, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: Q54, Q56, M42

Suggested Citation:

Sarlak, Amin and Khodakarami, Mehdi and Hesarzadeh, Reza and Nazari, Jamal A. and Taghimolla, Fatemeh, Drought Risk and Audit Pricing: A Mixed-Methods Study (March 24, 2024). Asian Review of Accounting, 10.1108/ARA-10-2023-0294, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762391
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies