Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital Disclosure, Earnings Quality, and Audit Effort

44 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2024

Sunny Hong

Birmingham City University

Ilias G. Basioudis

Aston University - Aston Business School

Abstract

Recent revisions to International Standard on Auditing 720 (UK) require some forms of assurance on company Strategic Report (SR), relating to “other information” included in a firm’s annual report. As the standard was being implemented, auditors and regulators have raised concerns about the impact of these reforms. The purpose of this paper is to investigate whether intellectual capital (IC) information disclosed in SR is associated with higher audit effort carried out by external auditors. By including new and unique disclosure variables in the audit fee model, we predict and find that firms with more IC disclosure in the previous year pay higher audit fees (proxied for audit effort) in the current year. The results are robust once we control for risk-based, firm-specific and audit-related factors. Results from conditional tests on earnings quality further suggest a robust relationship between IC disclosure and audit effort. Overall, our results suggest that IC disclosure behavior in SR significantly affects audit effort. This study provides direct evidence for the recent regulation adoptions of auditing in the UK, and thus our findings are of interest to standard setters, researchers, and practitioners involved in auditing and assurance works.

Keywords: nonfinancial disclosure, earnings quality, audit effort, audit fee, strategic report, UK

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Sunny and Basioudis, Ilias G., Intellectual Capital Disclosure, Earnings Quality, and Audit Effort. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
S Abhayawansa , J Guthrie
Importance of intellectual capital information: a study of Australian analyst reports
Australian Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 83 Posted: 2014
S Abhayawansa , M Aleksanyan , S Cuganesan
Conceptualisation of intellectual capital in analysts' narratives: a performative view
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 950 - 969 Posted: 2018
M A Baldini , G Liberatore
Corporate governance and intellectual capital disclosure. An empirical analysis of the Italian listed companies
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 187 - 201 Posted: 2016
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
RANK
730,413
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies