Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk Disclosures and Auditor Expertise

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming.

64 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Ly Pham

Aalto University School of Business

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Antti Miihkinen

University of Turku - Turku School of Economics; Aalto University School of Business

Emma-Riikka Myllymäki

Audencia Business School

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Jukka Sihvonen

Aalto University

Date Written: June 13, 2024

Abstract

Many jurisdictions are establishing requirements for corporations to disclose climate-related risks, and for those disclosures to be audited. One of the first jurisdictions to do so is Australia, where the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB) issued a Joint Bulletin in 2018 stating that both preparers and auditors should consider the impact of climate risks on the company's financials. Utilising the Australian setting, this paper introduces a new measure of audit partner expertise, namely expertise in climate-related issues, and examines whether it is associated with the client company's climate risk reporting. We define audit partner expertise in climate-related issues based on their client portfolio composition in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. We find that the likelihood and quality of climate risk disclosures is higher when the audit partner has climate risk expertise, and this finding is driven by clients in industries with material climate risks.

Keywords: climate, emissions, climate risk disclosure, auditing, auditor specialisation

Suggested Citation:

Pham, Ly and Hay, David and Miihkinen, Antti and Miihkinen, Antti and Myllymäki, Emma-Riikka and Niemi, Lasse and Sihvonen, Jukka, Climate Risk Disclosures and Auditor Expertise (June 13, 2024). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Auasb
Climate-related and other emerging risks disclosures: Assessing financial statement materiality using AASB Practice Statement
AASB-AUASB Research Report Climate-related disclosures and assurance in the Annual Reports of ASX-listed companies Posted: 2018
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
N Anderson
brief: Climate-related and other emerging risks disclosures: Assessing financial statement materiality Posted: 2019
S Audousset-Coulier , A Jeny , L Jiang
The Validity of Auditor Industry Specialization Measures
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
963
RANK
320,086
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies