Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning to Play the Game? Junior Auditors and a Standpoint Perspective on Audit Quality in a Big-4 Accounting Firm

32 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

James Brackley

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Charika Channuntapipat

Thailand Development Research Institute

Florian Gebreiter

University of Birmingham

Abstract

Following numerous high-profile scandals and corporate failures, the issue of audit quality continues to be subject to extensive debate among practitioners, policy makers and academics. Meanwhile, a growing ‘cross-paradigm’ literature has developed, seeking to better understand audit failure at the level of the audit team, and through the range of cultures and working practices in accounting firms. In this paper, we conduct a standpoint analysis of audit quality from the perspective of junior auditors with a view to making the following contributions. First, we suggest a retheorisation of audit quality via a critical performativity (Lukka and Becker, 2023) framework, suggesting that a critical perspective, drawn from those who do not hold strong vested interests, might provide for a stronger and more meaningful basis from which to intervene in audit practice. Second, drawing on this framework, we make an empirical contribution via a multi-method qualitative study, finding that a firmwide initiative to address high profile audit failure exacerbated existing problems relating to overwork, deadline pressure, and a culture of getting the job done at all costs. We find that the audit quality initiative focused attention on producing ‘auditable’ documentation trails rather than genuine scrutiny of the client or greater operational independence. Ultimately, we conclude that the current regime for ‘audit quality’ was in fact marginalising critical voices and embedding a culture in which audit quality and audit failure came to be reconstructed as one and the same phenomenon.

Suggested Citation:

Brackley, James and Channuntapipat, Charika and Gebreiter, Florian, Learning to Play the Game? Junior Auditors and a Standpoint Perspective on Audit Quality in a Big-4 Accounting Firm. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
M Alvesson , A Spicer
Critical leadership studies: The case for critical performativity
Human Relations , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 367 - 390 Posted: 2012
F Amyar , N N Hidayah , A Lowe , M Woods
Investigating the backstage of audit engagements: the paradox of team diversity
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal Posted: 2019
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
In the Name of the Client: The Service Ethic in Two Professional Services Firms
Human relations , volume 53 , issue 9 , p. 1151 - 1174 Posted: 2000
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational time-reckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
692,613
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies