Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing during COVID-19: Evidence from Ghana and Norway

AAA Journal of international accounting research

Posted: 24 Mar 2024

Iris C Stuart

Independent

Carmen Olsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law; Western Norway University of Applied Sciences

Basil Abeifaa Der

Independent

Date Written: March 21, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates how auditing changed during the COVID-19 pandemic in two countries, Norway and Ghana. The two countries reflect different levels of digital infrastructure and of government support. We interviewed 23 audit partners and managers during the pandemic (February 2020 to May 2023). The analysis of the responses using the theory of adaptive governance reveals three key findings related to audit adaptation during the 39 months of the pandemic. First, we find an increase in auditors’ and clients’ willingness to work digitally. In Ghana, the digitalization may be done by scanning documents and uploading them to a shared drive or by using a Shared Service Center (SSC). Second, we find an increase in audit fees over time as inflation increased during the pandemic. Finally, as the pandemic progressed, a shortage of audit staff became a major concern in both countries as auditors left the profession for other jobs.

Keywords: COVID-19; digital audit evidence; electronic-auditing; quality control; audit fees; remote auditing; adaptive governance; shared service centers (SSCs). I

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Stuart, Iris C and Olsen, Carmen and Olsen, Carmen and Abeifaa Der, Basil, Auditing during COVID-19: Evidence from Ghana and Norway (March 21, 2024). AAA Journal of international accounting research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767719
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies