Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Inhibitory Effect of Individual Auditor's Experience on Executive Explicit Corruption – Evidence from Chinese Listed Companies

54 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Jie Wang

Anhui University of Technology

Yanping Wang

Nanjing University of Science and Technology

Abstract

In light of the “anti-corruption and advocacy of integrity” movement, this study examines the role of individual auditor’s experience in inhibiting executive corruption by analyzing explicit corruption behaviors in Chinese listed companies before and after the 18th CPC National Congress. The results indicate a significant negative relationship between the length of an individual auditor’s general practice experience or industry-specific experience and executive explicit corruption. This suggests that individual auditor’s experience plays a crucial role in inhibiting executive corruption. The findings remain robust even after conducting various endogeneity analyses and additional robustness tests. Moreover, further analysis reveals that individual auditor’s experience is more effective in inhibiting executive explicit corruption in environments with stronger regional intensity of investigation and prosecution of corruption cases, higher media attention, non-state property rights, and a higher level of internal corporate governance. This research contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of executive explicit corruption and its governance mechanisms. It provides valuable insights for anti-corruption efforts, which are essential for the sustainable development of capital markets and businesses.

Keywords: individual auditor's experience, executive explicit corruption, audit governance, sustainable development

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Jie and Wang, Yanping, The Inhibitory Effect of Individual Auditor's Experience on Executive Explicit Corruption – Evidence from Chinese Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
Accounting Review , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
G S Bae , S U Choi , J E Lee
Auditors' response to auditor business risk: An analysis using public and private companies
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 27 - 51 Posted: 2021
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Journal of political economy , volume 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies