Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Going Concern Reporting by Firms Whose Auditors Are Not Concerned

Fox School of Business Research Paper

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

48 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 May 2024

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jayanthi Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Eunju (Ivy) Lee

Rowan University - Rohrer College of Business

Steven Maex

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: September 14, 2024

Abstract

In 2014, the FASB's Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15 introduced a major change in firms' financial reporting, requiring management to (a) systematically evaluate the firm's ability to continue as a going concern and (b) provide disclosures even when initial assessment of "substantial doubt" about going concern status is mitigated by management's plans. Hitherto, the going concern evaluation had been the sole responsibility of firms' auditors, who issue a "going concern opinion" (AGC) when needed, accompanied by concomitant disclosures by management. The ASU was not accompanied by a change in auditing standards for going concern. We examine management's going concern reporting by non-AGC firms, the subset of firms most directly impacted by the new standard, in the years following the adoption of the ASU. While the standard introduces new mandatory disclosures, we posit that systematic going concern evaluation will increase the precision of managers' private information and elicit voluntary disclosures by non-AGC firms. We document only a small number of new mandatory disclosures. However, a nontrivial number of firms make new voluntary disclosures stating explicitly that going concern issues do not exist, particularly in annual filings. Importantly, these "explicit clean" disclosures mostly come from relatively more distressed firms and elicit positive market reactions despite their financial distress. These disclosures are associated with higher audit effort suggesting that they are costly and credible signals by firms seeking to separate themselves from other distressed firms. Overall, the FASB's mandate appears to have brought clarity to the market for firms at risk of failure.

Keywords: ASU 2014-15, FASB, Going Concern, Management Voluntary Disclosure, Information Asymmetry, Bankruptcy, Delisting, Market Reaction, Audit Fee, Audit Lag JEL Classification: M41, M49

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Jagan and Krishnan, Jayanthi and Lee, Ivy and Maex, Steven, Management Going Concern Reporting by Firms Whose Auditors Are Not Concerned (September 14, 2024). Fox School of Business Research Paper, Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
M E Barth , M F Mcnichols , G P Wilson
Factors influencing firms' disclosures about environmental liabilities
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 64 Posted: 1997
B Behn , S Kaplan , K Krumwiede
Further evidence on the auditor's going-concern report: The influence of management plans
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 28 Posted: 2001
A Beyer , D , A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
354,141
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies