Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Materiality Judgments during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from the United Kingdom

61 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 2 Dec 2024

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Liwei Zhu

CUNEF Universidad

Omar de Ines Anton

CUNEF Universidad

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates how auditors' materiality assessments changed during the sudden adverse economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our evidence suggests that auditors primarily adjusted their benchmark choices in response to the pandemic’s negative impact, while maintaining quantitative materiality amounts similar to the pre-pandemic levels.  Our further analysis reveals an asymmetric pattern in auditors' materiality judgments: declining performance is associated with a higher likelihood of changing materiality benchmark types, but not with significant reductions in materiality values. Conversely, strong performance is associated with increased materiality values, but not with changes in benchmark types. These results suggest a misalignment between auditors' practices and ISA guidelines, which do not explicitly account for the direction of performance changes in materiality assessments. Such practices also raise concerns about whether auditors may have used benchmark changes to avoid reducing materiality levels. Our study provides valuable insights for practitioners, policymakers, and academics on auditors’ materiality assessments in the context of a global crisis. 

Keywords: materiality, auditing, professional judgment, COVID-19 pandemic

JEL Classification: C80, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Ting and Eugster, Florian and Zhu, Liwei and de Ines Anton, Omar, Audit Materiality Judgments during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from the United Kingdom (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4776494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
Account. Rev , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
I Alexeyeva , T Svanström
The impact of the global financial crisis on audit and nonaudit fees: Evidence from Sweden
Manag. Audit. J , volume 30 , issue 4/5 , p. 302 - 323 Posted: 2015
Statement of auditing standards 109 (AU section 314): Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement Posted: 2006-02
A Al-Qadasi , S R Baatwah , W K Omer
Audit fees under the COVID-19 pandemic: Evidence from Oman
J. Account. Emerg. Econ , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 806 - 824 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
549,213
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies