Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Perceptions of Audit Partners’ Trustworthiness Matter?

Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Ru Gao

The University of Queensland; Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Ray Wang

Independent

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether the perceived trustworthiness of an audit partner, based on static facial features, is influential in securing audit work and in related audit outcomes. Using a hand-collected dataset of U.S. audit partner photographs, we take advantage of artificial intelligence and machine learning image processing techniques to measure an audit partner’s facial trustworthiness. We find that an audit partner’s facial trustworthiness is positively associated with local audit market share. Such associations are incremental to, and distinct from, other constructs examined in prior research measured with audit partner facial features (e.g., attractiveness and non-conformity with gender stereotypes). Furthermore, an audit partner’s facial trustworthiness is associated with more efficient and higher quality audits. Collectively, our findings suggest that partner selection based on perceived trustworthiness reflects rational judgments rather than cognitive bias.

Keywords: audit partner facial trustworthiness; perceived trustworthiness; audit market share; audit efficiency; audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Ru and Lisic, Ling Lei and Seidel, Timothy A. and Wang, Ray, Do Perceptions of Audit Partners’ Trustworthiness Matter? (April 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779756
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies