Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence Auditability and Auditor Readiness for Auditing Artificial Intelligence Systems

Li, Y., and S. Goel., AI auditability and auditor readiness for auditing AI systems. Accepted at International Journal of Accounting Information Systems: Advanced Technologies and Decision Support for Audit (Special Issue), 2024

63 Pages Posted: 20 May 2024

Yueqi Li

Skidmore College

Sanjay Goel

University at Albany (SUNY)

Date Written: April 8, 2024

Abstract

As the business community races to implement artificial intelligence (AI), there are several challenges that need to be addressed such as fairness and biases, transparency, denial of individual rights, and dilution of privacy. AI audits are expected to ensure that AI systems function lawfully, robustly, and follow ethical standards (e.g., fairness). While the auditability for financial audits and information system audits has been well addressed in the literature, auditability of AI systems has not been sufficiently addressed. AI auditability and auditors’ competencies are crucial for ensuring AI audits are conducted with high quality. Research on the auditability of AI and the competencies of AI auditors is gravely lacking leaving risks in AI systems unmitigated. The primary reason is that the field is nascent and the rapid growth has left the audit profession struggling to catch up. Foundational work on establishing parameters for such research would help advance this research. In this paper, we explore AI auditability measures and competencies required for conducting AI audits. We conducted semi‐structured interviews with 23 experienced AI professionals who have direct involvement or indirect exposure to AI audits. Based on our findings, we propose a framework of AI auditability and identify the competencies required to conduct AI audits. Our study serves as the first formal attempt to systematically identify and classify auditability measures and auditors’ expertise demanded for AI audits based on practitioners’ perspectives. Our findings contribute to the AI audit literature, inform AI developers about implementing auditability, guide the training of new AI auditors, and establish a foundation for further research in the field.

Keywords: AI audits, auditability, auditors, competency, AI auditability framework

JEL Classification: M42, D83

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yueqi and Goel, Sanjay, Artificial Intelligence Auditability and Auditor Readiness for Auditing Artificial Intelligence Systems (April 8, 2024). Li, Y., and S. Goel., AI auditability and auditor readiness for auditing AI systems. Accepted at International Journal of Accounting Information Systems: Advanced Technologies and Decision Support for Audit (Special Issue), 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4787236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
References
A Alagić , L Turulja , N Bajgorić
Identification of information system audit quality factors
Journal of Forensic Accounting Profession , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2021
Aicpa
The AICPA pre-certification core competency framework
Association of International Certified Professional Accountants Posted: 2018
S Askary , N Abu-Ghazaleh , Y A Tahat
Artificial intelligence and reliability of accounting information
Challenges and Opportunities in the Digital Era: 17th IFIP WG 6.11 Conference on e-Business, e-Services, and e-Society, I3E 2018 , volume 17 , p. 315 - 324 Posted: 2018-10-30
Load more
2 Citations
Marc Eulerich , Anna Eulerich , Annika Bonrath
Technology and internal auditing: An overview of performance effects
Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 99 , issue 4 , p. 181 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Issam Benhayoun , Salma Bougrine , Aimad Sassioui
Readiness for artificial intelligence adoption by auditors in emerging countries – a PLS-SEM analysis of Moroccan firms
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1486 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,394
RANK
36,928
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies