Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lessons from the Warning Signs Before October 7th, 2023 Failure, Strengthening Board and Auditor Oversight

18 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Keren Bar-Hava

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: April 10, 2024

Abstract

Incomplete information analysis and overreliance on technology can create a "fog" obscuring financial risks. This paper argues that professional auditors, like informed and accurate intelligence forces, are essential for companies' survival. We draw an analogy between intelligence failures, where warnings are missed, and auditors who overlook red flags. The paper examines potential pitfalls in auditing work that mirror the failures evident in the October 7th attack, emphasizing the need for a risk-based approach and clear communication. The importance of the audit procedures is heightened in light of catastrophic events. Our goal is to emphasizes the importance of audit procedures, taking a holistic view, and balancing critical thinking with technology to ensure that auditors, in conjunction with the board of directors, prevent financial disasters.

Keywords: internal Control, Audit Failures, CAAT, Intelligence Failures, Financial Risk, Risk-Based Auditing, Corporate Governance Qualityma separated]

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G30, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bar-Hava, Keren, Lessons from the Warning Signs Before October 7th, 2023 Failure, Strengthening Board and Auditor Oversight (April 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4789738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4789738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
T Aksoy , B Gurol
Artificial intelligence in computer-aided auditing techniques and technologies (CAATTs) and an application proposal for auditors
Auditing Ecosystem and Strategic Accounting in the Digital Era: Global Approaches and New Opportunities , p. 361 - 384 Posted: 2021
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Audit committee disclosure tone and earnings management
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 780 - 799 Posted: 2021
M S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary accounting research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
580
RANK
528,080
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies