Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Reporting Key Audit Matters on Audit Fees and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Hong Kong

Journal of International Accounting Research Volume 22, Number 2, 2023

Posted: 30 May 2024

Reza Espahbodi

Ball State University

Nan Liu

Peking University

Jiarong Lin

Zheshang Securities Co.

Theodore J. Mock

University of Southern California; University of California, Riverside

Mohan Song

Beijing Longrising Asset Management Co., Ltd.

Date Written: April 14, 2024

Abstract

In 2015, the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued a standard requiring auditors to communicate key audit matters (KAMs) in the audit report. This standard provides an opportunity to examine the effect of KAMs on audit fees and financial reporting quality. Using public companies listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange as the treatment group and the companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Main Board Stock Exchanges as the control group, pre-post and difference-in-differences analyses show that the KAMs standard resulted in improved financial reporting quality but also higher audit fees. Further analyses show that, although the increase in audit fees was related to the risk of material financial statement mis-statements and audit firm business risk, the improvement in financial reporting, which occurred for companies with low financial reporting quality, resulted from the “threat to management of disclosure in KAMs.”

Keywords: key audit matters, auditing standards, audit fees, audit quality, financial reporting quality, accruals

JEL Classification: M38, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Espahbodi, Reza and Liu, Nan and Lin, Jiarong and Mock, Theodore J. and Mock, Theodore J. and Song, Mohan, The Effect of Reporting Key Audit Matters on Audit Fees and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Hong Kong (April 14, 2024). Journal of International Accounting Research Volume 22, Number 2, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4794045
 Not Available for Download
53 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
J , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of expanded audit reports: Evidence from the justifications of assessments in France
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2019
J , P Coram , R Espahbodi , T J Mock
Does recent academic research support changes to audit reporting standards? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
K Brasel , M Doxey , J Grenier , A Reffett
Risk disclosure preceding negative outcomes: The effects of reporting critical audit matters on judgments of auditor liability
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1345 - 1362 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies