Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Effort and Audit Fee Stickiness

35 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

In this study, I examine potential stickiness in audit fees when audit effort declines. Asymmetric behavior of audit fees to negative changes in audit effort is supported by the credence attributes of audits and market frictions, such as auditors’ economies of learning, lower audit quality with longer tenure, and auditor switching costs. Using a proprietary dataset of Greek audit hours for a large sample of public and private firms, the empirical results reveal that audit fees exhibit asymmetric behavior to audit effort changes, that is, they respond less to decreases relative to increases in audit hours, thereby indicating audit fee stickiness. Additional analysis suggests that audit fee stickiness is more prevalent for Big N auditors with longer tenure, and that it is positively related with accounting quality. Collectively, the relevant inferences suggest that audit fee stickiness stems from economies of learning rather than switching costs or decreased audit quality with longer audit tenure.

Keywords: audit fee stickiness, audit effort, audit learning

Suggested Citation:

Karampinis, Nikolaos I., Audit Effort and Audit Fee Stickiness. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S N Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia , S Siddiqui , A Vinelli
Heterogeneity in expertise in a credence goods setting: evidence from audit partners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 693 - 729 Posted: 2021
B A Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
976
RANK
320,086
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies