Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Friendly-Advice Ties, Auditor Gender, and Auditor Performance

45 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 12 Oct 2025

Urton Anderson

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Romina Rakipi

West Virginia University

Scott Soltis

University of Kentucky - School of Management

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

Prior research provides mixed findings regarding the role of social connections among auditors for knowledge acquisition and auditor performance. In this study, we seek to provide new insights by viewing social connections as a multifaceted phenomenon with benefits (or detriments) that may not equally accrue across all auditors. Specifically, we advance past work which has focused on instrumental relationships (advice, knowledge-seeking, etc.) to account for affective relationships such as friendship with particular focus on the role of overlapping ‘friendly-advice’ connections. Past social network scholarship has also highlighted gender gaps in the accrual and leveraging of workplace relationships that have yet to be meaningfully explored in an audit context. Therefore, we account for the nuances of auditor performance by modeling the effects of friendly-advice relationships for men and women on various individual elements of job performance.  Using data from the internal audit function of a publicly traded company, we find that seeking advice from peers who are considered friends is positively associated with a variety of technical and soft components of performance. However, some of these relational benefits only accrue to male auditors. These findings provide evidence that affective relationships in the workplace can create a favorable context for knowledge-sharing among auditors, positively impacting several elements of performance, but that these returns are unequally distributed across genders.

Keywords: auditor performance, Knowledge Acquisition, Friendship Ties, Professional Ties, Multiplex Friendly Advice Ties, Auditor Gender

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Urton L. and Causholli, Monika and Rakipi, Romina and Soltis, Scott, Friendly-Advice Ties, Auditor Gender, and Auditor Performance (April 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Aicpa
Survey finds flexible work arrangements can help CPA firms recruit and retain female employees
#:~:text=The%20AICPA's%20biennial%20CPA%20Firm Posted: 2020
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget
the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
597,018
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Interorganizational Networks & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies