Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“The Gut Instinct Gives You Direction and then You Follow It”: Exploring the Social-Intuitive Dimension of Auditor Skepticism

Accepted in Journal of Business Ethics

41 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2024 Last revised: 13 Nov 2024

Yasser Alnafisah

Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University

Mouna Hazgui

HEC Montreal - Department of Accounting Studies

Anna Samsonova-Taddei

The University of Manchester

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Recent conceptualizations of auditors’ professional skepticism suggest the interplay between analytical and intuitive information processing. We conduct an in-depth empirical investigation to explore this relationship, drawing on 49 interviews with auditors from the Big Four audit firms in the UK. It reveals that auditors’ skepticism often emerges intuitively in response to interpersonal contexts, manifesting as feelings of discomfort. These intuitive responses guide subsequent, more deliberative processes of collecting and analyzing audit evidence. The research demonstrates that such intuitive feelings are integral to auditors’ recognition of potential issues, thereby enhancing their cognitive evaluations. Additionally, the study explores how auditors’ skeptical judgments are continuously shaped by their social environments and the intuitions of other members of their audit teams. Ultimately, the findings affirm that the fusion of intuition and reasoning plays a crucial role in auditors’ practice of PS, with past practice experiences and social interactions enriching their intuitive assessments and contributing to developing their professional expertise.

Keywords: Audit Ethics; Professional skepticism; Social-Intuitionist Model; Intuition; Emotions; Auditors’ judgement.

Suggested Citation:

Alnafisah, Yasser and Hazgui, Mouna and Samsonova-Taddei, Anna, “The Gut Instinct Gives You Direction and then You Follow It”: Exploring the Social-Intuitive Dimension of Auditor Skepticism (March 1, 2024). Accepted in Journal of Business Ethics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4796496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4796496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
S Aghazadeh , J R Joe
Auditors' response to management confidence and misstatement risk
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 101 Posted: 2022
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational timereckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
T D Bauer
The effects of client identity strength and professional identity salience on auditor judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 114 Posted: 2015
S Bhattacharjee , K K Moreno , T Riley
The interplay of interpersonal affect and source reliability on auditors' inventory judgments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 1087 - 1108 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
540
RANK
514,796
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social & Personality Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies