Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Rating Divergence and Audit Fees: Evidence from China

22 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Shixian Ling

Shandong University at Weihai

Hui Xia

Shandong University

Zhangxin (Frank) Liu

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

We investigate the impact of ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) rating discrepancies on audit fees using data from A-share companies listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2015 to 2022. We find that ESG rating divergence significantly increases audit fees due to increased information asymmetry, heightened operational risks, and elevated debt costs. External factors like internationalisation and participation in low-carbon initiatives moderate this relationship. Our results, which remain robust to alternative measures and endogeneity checks, offer critical insights for firms seeking to manage audit expenses through better ESG performance and for policymakers aiming to standardize ESG evaluations.

Keywords: ESG rating divergence, audit fee, information asymmetry, business risks, cost of debt capital

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Shixian and Xia, Hui and Liu, Zhangxin (Frank), ESG Rating Divergence and Audit Fees: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4798780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4798780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , issue 2 , p. 642 - 664 Posted: 2022
F Berg , J F Koelbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: the divergence of ESG ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
M Billi , M Costola , I Hristova , C Latino , L Pelizzon
Inside the ESG ratings: (Dis) Agreement and performance
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 28 , p. 1426 - 1445 Posted: 2021
A Chatterji , K Durand , R Levine , D I Touboul , S
Do ratings of firms converge? Implications for managers, investors and strategy researcher
Strategic management Journal , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 1597 - 1614 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
982
RANK
274,135
4 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies