Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit firm political connections and PCAOB inspection reports

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Accounting, Organizations and Society, 100, 101335. DOI:10.1016/j.aos.2022.101335.

Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of audit firm political connections on the harshness of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) inspection reports. Relying on Regulatory Capture Theory and Motivated Reasoning Theory, we show audit firm political connections, as measured through PAC contributions, are negatively associated with the harshness of Part I reports. Our results are robust to instrumentation and are not due to movements of personnel between the PCAOB and audit firms or improvements in a firm's audit quality. In supplementary tests, we show the negative relation is stronger when we consider the directed nature of PAC contributions to members of Congress who exercise SEC oversight and robust to alternative measures. Finally, we consider the harshness of Part II inspection reports and find no association with political connections. Collectively, our results suggest audit firm political connections induce favorable influence over Part I findings of PCAOB inspection reports. Full paper available at https://doi-org/10.1016/j.aos.2022.101335

Keywords: Political connections, PCAOB, Audit regulation, Auditor inspections

JEL Classification: C80, D72, G18, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Park, Hyun Jong, Audit firm political connections and PCAOB inspection reports ( 2022). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Accounting, Organizations and Society, 100, 101335. DOI:10.1016/j.aos.2022.101335., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4799150
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies