Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Enterprise Innovation on Auditor Behavior Selection

45 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2024

Chunyu Xing

Beijing Information Science and Technology University

Xiaorui Li

Beijing Information Science and Technology University

Hang Meng

Beijing Information Science and Technology University

Abstract

Enterprise innovation is accompanied by many uncertainties. This article studies the influence of enterprise innovation on auditor behavior such as audit fees, audit opinions and audit quality. The results show that auditors tend to charge higher audit fees, but are not inclined to issue non-standard audit opinions. Indeed, auditors will improve audit quality to cope with enterprise innovation activities, and the earnings management level of audited units has significantly decreased. The research on the economic consequences of enterprise innovation and auditor behavior has been expanded, which provides relevant reference for enterprises, accounting firms and regulatory authorities.

Keywords: Enterprise innovation, audit fees, Audit opinion, Audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Xing, Chunyu and Li, Xiaorui and Meng, Hang, The Influence of Enterprise Innovation on Auditor Behavior Selection. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4801957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4801957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Xu Zhiyong , ; Wang , Jin ; Zhang , Na ; Han , Bing
Mismatch of Asset Structure,Incentive Mechanism and Dual Innovation of Enterprises
J) Economics ＆ Management , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosure[J]
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Jia Hu Haichuan , An Wangteng , Haigang
Will increased innovation investment by businesses raise the level of audit fees,Friends of Accounting Posted: 2022
Y Konchitchki , Y Luo , M L Z Ma
Accounting-Based Downside Risk, Cost of Capital, and the Macroeconomy[J] Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
RANK
872,691
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies