Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncovering the Nature of Framing: The Big Four Audit Firms Versus a Competition Regulator

36 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2024

Neil J. Dunne

Trinity College Dublin

Niamh M. Brennan

University College Dublin

Collette E. Kirwan

South East Technological University (SETU)

Abstract

This research applies framing theory to examine and model how powerful global entities such as the Big Four audit firms oppose a regulator. In examining Big Four framing, an under-researched phenomenon, we conduct a frame package analysis, hitherto not considered in the accounting or auditing literatures. The analysis addresses the fractured nature of the framing literature and shows how different types of framing pertain to accounting and auditing-based research. Additionally, the paper offers a novel frame process model which will help regulators foresee how those under scrutiny may construct and adapt their responses to regulatory projects. To study how the Big Four use framing to oppose a regulator, we analyse their consultation responses to the UK Competition and Markets Authority. We contextualize our findings by examining the Regulator’s reports. We conceptualize the Big Four’s frames as ‘frame packages’ comprising reasoning devices and framing devices. Our frame package analysis, the longitudinal nature of the data, and the resultant frame process model, illuminate how the Big Four’s frames originate, escalate, and expire. We find the Big Four’s frames are responsive to the Regulator’s actions, thus revealing the importance of interaction to framing. However, the Regulator’s final report suggests that, despite the Big Four’s size and expertise, their frames only partially influenced the regulatory audience.

Keywords: Big Four, Audit, Framing, Frame packages

Suggested Citation:

Dunne, Neil J. and Brennan, Niamh M. and Kirwan, Collette E. and Kirwan, Collette E., Uncovering the Nature of Framing: The Big Four Audit Firms Versus a Competition Regulator. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4806715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4806715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
S Addison , F Mueller
The dark side of professions: the big four and tax avoidance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 8 , p. 1263 - 1290 Posted: 2015
C T Alberti , J C Bédard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
A M Allen , K Ramanna , S Roychowdhury
Auditor lobbying on accounting standards
Journal of Law, Finance & Accounting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 331 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
792,195
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies