Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Industry Specialization, Service Bundling and Partner Effects in a Mining-Dominated City

Ferguson A, G. Pündrich, A. Raftery, 2014.Auditor Industry Specialization, Service Bundling, and Partner Effects in a Mining-Dominated City. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 33(3):153-180

27 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Andrew Ferguson

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Adrian Raftery

Deakin Business School

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

This study examines auditor industry specialisation effects in Perth, a remote mining town in Australia characterised by a large number of small, homogeneous firms. We consider the impact of leadership by the non-Big 4 auditor BDO Kendalls (BDO) for a sample of 371 mining development stage entities (MDSE’s). After controlling for factors known to determine audit fees, we find no evidence of auditor industry leadership fee premiums accruing to either the non-Big 4 (BDO) or the Big 4 leader (EY), a result robust to a range of sensitivity tests including the broadening of tests Australia-wide. However, when the dependent variable is redefined to the total ‘bundle’ of services provided by the audit firm (including audit and non-audit fees), the industry leader is shown to earn a fee premium suggesting BDO uses audits as a conduit to supply higher margin non-audit services. Our findings suggest that strategic pricing by industry leaders may not be confined to Big 4 firms.

Keywords: audit fees, industry specialisation, service bundling, non-audit services, second-tier firms, mining industry

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Andrew and Pundrich, Gabriel and Raftery, Adrian, Auditor Industry Specialization, Service Bundling and Partner Effects in a Mining-Dominated City (April 29, 2024). Ferguson A, G. Pündrich, A. Raftery, 2014.Auditor Industry Specialization, Service Bundling, and Partner Effects in a Mining-Dominated City. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 33(3):153-180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W J Adams , J L Yellen
Commodity Bundling and the Burden of Monopoly
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 90 , issue 3 , p. 475 - 498 Posted: 1976
R Antle , J S Demski
Contracting Frictions, Regulation, and the Structure of CPA Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1991
M Bennet
PKF prepares to rebuild in Perth. The Australian Posted: 2010
L Berton
The CPA Jungle: Accounting Profession, Once a Staid Field, Is Torn by Incivility
Wall Street Journal Posted: 1991-07-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies