Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audited Firms Have a Lower Cost of Debt?

Huq, A.M., Hartwig, F. & Rudholm, N. Do audited firms have a lower cost of debt?. Int J Discl Gov 19, 153–175 (2022).

23 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Fredrik Hartwig

University of Gävle

Niklas Rudholm

HFI, Institute of Retail Economics

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate if audited financial statements add value for firms in the private debt market. Using an instrumental variable method, we find that firms with audited financial statements, on average, save 0.47 percentage points on the cost of debt compared to firms with unaudited financial statements. We also find that using the big, well-known auditing firms does not yield any additional cost of debt benefits. Lastly, we investigate if there are industries where alternative sources of information make auditing less valuable in reducing the cost of debt. Here, we find that auditing is less important in lowering cost in one industry, agriculture, where one lender has a 74% market share and a 100-year history of lending to firms within that industry. As such, it seems that lenders having high exposure to a certain industry might act as an alternative to auditing in reducing the information asymmetry between the firm and the lender.

Keywords: External audit, Regulation, Agency theory, Audit reform, Audit complexity, Cost of capital, Endogenous switching model, Private limited firms

JEL Classification: D22, D24, M42. M48

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Hartwig, Fredrik and Rudholm, Niklas, Do Audited Firms Have a Lower Cost of Debt? (April 30, 2024). Huq, A.M., Hartwig, F. & Rudholm, N. Do audited firms have a lower cost of debt?. Int J Discl Gov 19, 153–175 (2022). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4813018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
J C Adams , D K Hayunga , S Mansi , D M Reeb , V Verardi
Identifying and treating outliers in finance forthcoming financial management
SSRN Journal Posted: 2017
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: an examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
J S Ang
On the theory of finance for privately held firms
The Journal of Entrepreneurial Finance , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 185 - 203 Posted: 1992
R M Baylis , P Burnap , M A Clatworthy , M A Gad
Private lenders' demand for audit
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , p. 78 - 97 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
499
RANK
812,770
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies