Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Free to Choose: Do Voluntary Audit Reforms Increase Employment Growth?

Huq, A. M., Daunfeldt, S. O., Hartwig, F., & Rudholm, N. (2020). Free to Choose: Do Voluntary Audit Reforms Increase Employment Growth? International Journal of the Economics of Business, 28(1), 163–178. https://doi-org.www.bibproxy.du.se/10.1080/13571516.2020.1802963

Posted: 10 Jun 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Sven-Olov Daunfeldt

HUI Research

Fredrik Hartwig

University of Gävle

Niklas Rudholm

HFI, Institute of Retail Economics

Date Written: September 14, 2020

Abstract

Many European countries have abolished mandatory audits for small firms to reduce the regulatory and administrative burden for these firms. However, we still lack knowledge on whether such legislative changes affect employment growth for those firms that become free to choose to have external audits. We investigate this question using a Swedish reform that made audits voluntary for small firms fulfilling certain requirements. The reform created an almost ideal natural experiment, which we use to evaluate the effects of voluntary audits on employment growth for small firms using a difference-in-difference estimator. We find that firms which fulfilled the requirements for voluntary auditing, compared to a control group of similar firms that did not, increased their employment growth rate by 0.59%. This corresponds to 2,770 jobs being created in the year following the reform, suggesting that mandatory audits act as a growth barrier for small firms.

Keywords: Firm growth, small business economics, regulatory reform, mandatory audit

JEL Classification: M42, M48, D22, J23

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Daunfeldt, Sven-Olov and Hartwig, Fredrik and Rudholm, Niklas, Free to Choose: Do Voluntary Audit Reforms Increase Employment Growth? (September 14, 2020). Huq, A. M., Daunfeldt, S. O., Hartwig, F., & Rudholm, N. (2020). Free to Choose: Do Voluntary Audit Reforms Increase Employment Growth? International Journal of the Economics of Business, 28(1), 163–178. https://doi-org.www.bibproxy.du.se/10.1080/13571516.2020.1802963, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4813050
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies