Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Audit Matter Disclosure and Stock Mispricing: Evidence from China

15 Pages Posted: 2 May 2024

Wenzhen Li

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Xiao Yu Zheng

Hainan University

Abstract

Stock mispricing refers to the situation where the stock price of a firm diverges from its intrinsic value, which can impair market resource allocation efficiency and hinder the healthy development of the capital market. This study aims to investigate the influence of key audit matters (KAM) disclosure on stock mispricing.  Using a firm-level panel dataset from 2017 to 2022, we demonstrate that KAM disclosure can significantly reduce stock mispricing. This effect is achieved by mitigating information asymmetry and curtailing managerial earnings management. Heterogeneity analysis reveals a more pronounced impact in firms with poor audit quality and deficient internal control systems.

Keywords: Key audit matters, Stock mispricing, asset pricing

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wenzhen and Zheng, Xiao Yu, Key Audit Matter Disclosure and Stock Mispricing: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4814605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4814605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
S K Asare , A M Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
M Almulla , M E Bradbury
Auditor, client, and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2019
J R Becker-Blease , A J Irani
Do corporate governance attributes affect adverse selection costs? Evidence from seasoned equity offerings
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , p. 281 - 296 Posted: 2008
B T Carver , B Trinkle
Nonprofessional Investors' Reactions to the PCAOB's Proposed Changes to the Standard Audit Report Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
459,276
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies