Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Institutional Constraints Curb Innate Personality Traits? A Study of Audit Engagement Partners

51 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Andrew Fluharty

University of St. Thomas - Opus College of Business

Jacob Ott

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Xinyuan Shao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Pervin K. Shroff

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Date Written: May 2, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether the facial masculinity of audit engagement partners has an impact on the quality of their audit outputs. Facial masculinity, measured by the facial width-to-height ratio, has been linked by biological and psychological research to high testosterone levels and the underlying aggressive, risk-seeking, status-preserving, and egocentric personality traits in males. We find that on average facial masculinity of engagement partners predicts lower quality financial and audit reports, suggesting that innately aggressive and risk-seeking partners may relax audit standards to retain clients and advance their careers. A notable finding is that we do not observe the effect of facial masculinity for partners of Big 4 accounting firms and accounting firms with low reported audit deficiencies. This evidence suggests that the institutionalized norms and practices of these accounting firms may restrain the innate traits of audit engagement partners and elicit desirable behavior. While contributing to the limited audit research at the partner level, our paper sheds light on the importance of institutional constraints in curbing individuals’ natural propensities.

Keywords: Audit partners, innate personality traits, institutional constraints, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M50

Suggested Citation:

Fluharty, Andrew and Ott, Jacob and Shao, Xinyuan and Shroff, Pervin K., Can Institutional Constraints Curb Innate Personality Traits? A Study of Audit Engagement Partners (May 2, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4815633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4815633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S Ahmed , J Sihvonen , S Vahamaa
CEO facial masculinity and bank risk-taking
Personality and Individual Differences , volume 138 , p. 133 - 139 Posted: 2019
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
C Apicella , A Dreber , B Campbell , P Gray , M Hoffman , A Little
Evolution and Human Behavior , volume 29 , issue 6 , p. 384 - 390 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Negin Sharifi Khaksari , Reza Hesarzadeh , Mahmoud Lari Dashtbayaz , Ameneh Bazrafshan , Ali Saeedi
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Professional Scepticism
Australian Accounting Review , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 49 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
708,404
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies