Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Riding the Merger Wave: The Gatekeeping Role of Auditors

69 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Robert R. Carnes

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Date Written: May 2024

Abstract

I investigate whether auditors engage in greater monitoring of acquirers during industry merger waves. Merger waves are periods of industry transformation (i.e., disruption) that are accompanied by greater uncertainty, limited internal and external corporate monitoring, and poorer acquisition performance. These factors threaten the quality of acquirers’ financial reports. Theory suggests auditors respond to these periods by increasing their effort, which increases audit quality, and by resigning from high-risk engagements to reduce their portfolio risk. Using audit fees to proxy for audit effort, I predict and find that audit effort is higher for audits of acquirers during merger waves. This effect is stronger when mergers are more material to acquirers, board monitoring is weaker, institutional ownership is lower, analyst forecasts are of poorer quality, and management is more likely to have made a value-destroying acquisition. Regarding audit quality, I find that financial statements are less likely to be materially misstated for in-wave audits and that auditors are more likely to timely identify and report internal control deficiencies. Lastly, I find that auditors are more likely to resign from in-wave audits. Overall, these findings are consistent with auditors adapting to merger waves, responding to shortcomings in acquirers’ corporate governance during these periods, and providing higher-quality corporate monitoring within the scope of their influence. Importantly, this study provides insights that broaden our understanding of auditing and M&A transactions.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Merger Waves, Audit, Governance, Industry Disruptions

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Carnes, Robert, Riding the Merger Wave: The Gatekeeping Role of Auditors (May 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4818434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4818434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
T Adams , J Krishnan , J Krishnan
Client influence and auditor independence revisited: Evidence from auditor resignations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Posted: 2021
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Meiting Lu , Ruizhe Wang , Ava Wu , Shan Zhou
Reporting Connectivity, Audit Quality and Audit Fees
Abacus, forthcoming. · 42 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2023 · Last revised: 12 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 395
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
RANK
605,632
1 Citations
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies