Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All I Want to Know is, Can I Get on the Plane? Experienced Stakeholder Perceptions of the Audit Report



55 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Julia Ariel-Rohr

DePaul University

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

J. Gregory Jenkins

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

Standard setters and market participants continue to debate the content and informativeness of the standard financial statement audit report. We conducted semi-structured interviews with 25 highly experienced business professionals to explore their perceptions of the current audit report and how they believe proposed changes (e.g., adding disclosures related to fraud) may impact its value. Our results reveal that interviewees perceive a general lack of understanding of the report’s current disclosures, possibly due to unnecessary complexities in the wording of the current report. Interviewees expressed a preference for a simplified report that gives more insight into the audit process. Finally, most interviewees conveyed concerns that proposed changes to the audit report will result in unintended, possibly adverse, consequences. Our results suggest that standard setters should more closely incorporate stakeholder preferences into the standard setting process.

Keywords: audit report, fraud, going concern, standard setters

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Ariel-Rohr, Julia and Brazel, Joseph F. and Gimbar, Christine and Jenkins, J. Gregory and Jones, Keith Lamar,
All I Want to Know is, Can I Get on the Plane? Experienced Stakeholder Perceptions of the Audit Report


(December 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4819580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4819580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Report of the Committee on the Social Consequences of Accounting Information Posted: 1977
Reports on Audited Financial Statements. AU-C Section 508 (formerly SAS 58) Posted: 1988
Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor's Report. AU-C Section 701
Restatement of the Law, Second, Torts 2d Posted: 1965
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
635
RANK
478,514
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies