Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A structured literature review of empirical research on mandatory auditor rotation

50 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2024

Cristina Florio

University of Verona - University of Verona

Date Written: May 8, 2024

Abstract

This study reviews 128 empirical studies on mandatory auditor rotation (MAR) in light of the long-standing debate on the effectiveness of MAR and the different regulatory choices made worldwide over time. A structured literature review was conducted to address three research questions. How has empirical research on MAR developed from 2000 to 2022? What is the focus and critique of the empirical research on MAR? What is the future of MAR empirical research? The findings reveal growing empirical evidence on MAR. However, this evidence is fragmented and country-based. Scholars have primarily focused on audit firm rotation rather than audit partner rotation. While quantitative research based on archival data predominates, survey questionnaires prevail in a few regions. Evidence on how MAR impacts auditor independence, the auditor-client relationship, and audit market concentration is scant, whereas audit quality is the most investigated research question. Nonetheless, assessing whether MAR benefits audit quality remains challenging because the research outcomes depend on the research question, rotation type, research method, and regulations enforced in the empirical setting. Based on this comprehensive and rigorous overview of 2 worldwide MAR empirical research, knowledge gaps are underlined, avenues for future research are suggested, and warnings are issued to shareholders and policymakers.

Keywords: mandatory auditor rotation, audit quality, auditor independence, audit regulation, audit market concentration, structured literature review

JEL Classification: M4,M42

Suggested Citation:

Florio, Cristina, A structured literature review of empirical research on mandatory auditor rotation (May 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4822723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
192 References
T Akther , F Xu
An investigation of the credibility of and confidence in audit value: Evidence from a developing country
Accounting Research Journal , volume 34 , issue 5 , p. 488 - 510 Posted: 2021
B Arel , R Brody , K Pany
Findings on the effects of audit firm rotation on the audit process under varying strengths of corporate governance
Advances in Accounting , volume 22 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2006
N Arthur , M Endrawes , S Ho
Impact of partner change on audit quality: An analysis of partner and firm specialisation effects
Australian Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 368 - 381 Posted: 2017
E Aschauer , R Quick
Mandatory audit firm rotation and prohibition of audit firm provided tax services: Evidence from investment consultants' perceptions
International Journal of Auditing , volume 22 , p. 131 - 149 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
RANK
521,427
1 Citations
192 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies