Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of International Accounting Alliances, Association, and Network Membership on Audit Efficiency: Evidence from China

43 Pages Posted: 16 May 2024

Xizi Wang

University of International Business and Economics

Lingling Zhang

University of International Business and Economics

Abstract

Abstract: Regulators suggest that accounting firms join an accounting alliance, association, and network (AAAN) to improve audit efficiency. Previous studies find accounting firms with the membership conduct higher-quality audit than nonmember accounting firms. However, enhanced audit quality does not necessarily suggest that the membership improves audit efficiency. Using a unique dataset of audit hours and audit adjustments in China, we find a significant reduction in audit hours, accompanied by an increase in audit adjustments, resulting from the membership. Cross-sectional analysis and time-series analysis suggest that reductions in audit hours and increases in audit adjustments resulting from the membership are more pronounced when individual partners have less audit experience, clients have more subsidiaries, auditor tenure is shorter, or during the second year than during the first year after joining. Additional tests show that hourly audit fees increase significantly during the post-joining period but total audit fees do not. Further, we find that audit lag would decrease after joining AAANs. Overall, we provide direct evidence that audit efficiency improve after accounting firms join an AAAN and shed light on the effects of the membership on value sharing between auditors.

Keywords: Accounting Alliances, Association, and Network, Audit Competence, audit quality, Audit Adjustments

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xizi and Zhang, Lingling, The Impacts of International Accounting Alliances, Association, and Network Membership on Audit Efficiency: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4830251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Acap
Posted: 2008
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
M Aiken , X Ji , W Lu
The certified public accounting profession in China: its development and impact on financial control of business operations
Australian Accounting Review , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 45 - 53 Posted: 1997
L Argote , P Ingram
Knowledge transfer: a basis for competitive advantage in firms. Organizational Behavior & Human Decision Processes , volume 82 , p. 150 - 169 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies