Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restatements by the Clients of the Largest Audit Firms: A Cross-Sectional and Temporal Analyses

29 Pages Posted: 21 May 2024

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yue Ma

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Abstract

Using restatements as a proxy for audit quality, we examine restatements trends over time and across the six major audit firms (Big 4, BDO, GT). We find that the restatement rates are lower for Big 4 clients than for the two mid-tier clients. Within the Big 4, PWC (KPMG) clients tend to be associated with the highest (lowest) restatement rates. However, these differences reduce over time. Our trend analyses show that the frequency of restatements first increases and then starts declining rapidly for PWC, E&Y, DT. For KPMG and GT, there is a secular decline in restatements, while for BDO, restatements increase over the last eleven years. In contrast, there is a secular decline in Big R restatements for all the audit firms other than BDO. Our study provides initial evidence on the evolution and heterogeneity of audit quality for the past eleven years within the six largest audit firms.

Keywords: audit quality, restatements, material restatements, Big R restatements, Big 6

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Ma, Yue, Restatements by the Clients of the Largest Audit Firms: A Cross-Sectional and Temporal Analyses. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4836936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4836936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
A I Blankley , D N Hurtt , J E Macgregor
Abnormal audit fees and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 96 Posted: 2012
Y Cao , L A Myers , T C Omer
Does company reputation matter for financial reporting quality? Evidence from restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 956 - 990 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
623,124
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies