Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internal Audit on Effectiveness of Financial Management in Government Statutory Bodies: A Case Study of Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC)

66 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2024

Chibulo Foster Mwachikoka

University of Zambia (UNZA)

Date Written: November 13, 2020

Abstract

ABSTRACT The study was aimed at assessing the impact of internal audit on effectiveness of financial management in government statutory bodies especially in Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC). To achieve this, data was collected using a Lickert scale questionnaire and a structured interview and the results were analyzed using a Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) software package. These objectives of the study where to; assess the factors that promote the effectiveness of the Internal Auditors in performing their duties in CCPC; assess the effectiveness of Financial Management Performance in CCPC; determine the factors that hinder the internal audit from having an effectiveness impact on financial management in CCPC. Findings from the study were that the factors that promote the effectiveness of the internal auditors in performing their duties in CCPC include, the independence of the auditor (overall mean score: 2.21), staffing, training and resources (overall mean score: 2.15), due professional care and experience (overall mean score: 2.36) and interpersonal-relationships (overall mean score: 2.36). However, management support (overall mean score: 3.36) implies that the respondents were neutral or were not sure about whether the internal auditors received an overall management support and hence the conclusion is that the indicator is not a factor that promote the effectiveness of internal auditors in performing their duties in CCPC. Further the study revealed that financial management performance in CCPC was ineffective as revealed by an overall mean score of 3.53 implying that most respondents were not sure about the effectiveness of financial management performance in CCPC. This is because some respondents were of the view that political influence contributed to ineffective financial payments whereas others were not (Mean score: 3.20), that the cash available had little impact on solving the arising financial matters as they happen (Mean score: 4.00). Finally, in determining the factors that hinder the internal audit from having an effectiveness impact on financial management in CCPC, the research findings revealed low salaries which had a lower mean score of 1.43, followed by lack of motivation with 2.34 and in third position was government policies. These outcomes imply that low salary, lack of motivation and government policies are some of the major factors that hinder the internal audit from having an effective impact on financial management in CCPC. However, respondents were not sure whether being understaffed (Mean = 3.24), lack of professionals (Mean = 3.12) and Political influence (mean = 3.10) actually hindered internal audit from having an effective impact on financial management in CCPC.

Suggested Citation:

Mwachikoka, Chibulo Foster, The Impact of Internal Audit on Effectiveness of Financial Management in Government Statutory Bodies: A Case Study of Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC) (November 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
References Australian national audit office
Public Sector Internal Audit. Australian National Audit Office Posted: 2007
S K Aikins
An examination of government internal audits' role in improving financial performance
Public Finance and Management , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 306 - 337 Posted: 2011
Acca
Audit and assurance Essential text: Paper F8 INT Posted: 2008
S Badara
The Role of Internal Auditors in Ensuring Effective Financial Control at Local Government Level: A case of Alkaleri LGA
Research Journal Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 4 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
778,997
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies