Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking Barriers to Change: The COVID-19 Pandemic's Impact on Attitudes Toward and Willingness to Pay for Audit Innovation

42 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Amanda Carlson

Merrimack College

Date Written: April 08, 2024

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on auditors' and financial statement preparers' (managers, hereafter) attitudes towards and willingness to pay (WTP) for audit innovation. Although accounting firms and their clients report that the COVID-19 pandemic hastened the adoption of audit innovation, it is unclear whether clients' historical lack of WTP higher audit fees for such innovation shifted. We conduct an experiential questionnaire with 141 auditors and client managers examining pre-and mid-COVID WTP for audit innovation. Relying on crisis response and WTP theory, we hypothesize and find that client managers demonstrate greater WTP and that auditors expect their clients will be willing to pay more for audit innovation in the mid-COVID period than pre-COVID. While we anticipate that the pandemic greatly increased the use of audit process-enabling technology during the transition to remote auditing, we also find that the use of advanced procedure-enabling audit tools increased and broadened mid-COVID. Our findings indicate that the pandemic struck down major historical barriers to both adoption of and WTP for audit innovation. Our study provides insights into factors that influence the adoption of audit innovation and helps illuminate how the pandemic caused this major shift in the audit process and in attitudes towards innovation.

Keywords: COVID-19, audit innovation, willingness to pay, audit fees, digital transformation

Ethics Approval

We received required approvals from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) before administering the study.

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Carlson, Amanda, Breaking Barriers to Change: The COVID-19 Pandemic's Impact on Attitudes Toward and Willingness to Pay for Audit Innovation (April 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
K Albitar , A M Gerged , H Kikhia , K Hussainey
Auditing in times of social distancing: the effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 178 Posted: 2021
M G Alles , G L Gray
Incorporating big data in audits: Identifying inhibitors and a research agenda to address those inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016
D Appelbaum , S Budnik , M Vasarhelyi
Auditing and accounting during and after the COVID-19 crisis
The CPA Journal , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2020
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
583
RANK
545,548
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies