Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating climate risk: evidence from earnings conference call-based climate risk

80 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Hafiz Hoque

Swansea University

Saadia Irfan

Swansea University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

We examine the role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating firm level climate risk. By analysing a large US dataset of 31,673 firm years from 2001 to 2022, we find that Big 4 auditors are negatively related to firm level climate risk. This relationship holds across various climaterelated risk proxies and is robust to estimation methods based on Heckman two-stage estimation and Propensity score matching. The results in channel analysis reveal that the negative effect of the Big 4 on climate risk is more visible when the Big 4 is also an industry specialist; when there is less firm level information asymmetry; when there is high climate sentiment; and when there is high physical and transition risk related to climate change. On the other hand, we find that the Big 4 charges greater audit and non-audit fees and puts in more effort when climate risk is higher. Moreover, we find that the relationship between Big 4 and climate risk is positive when a firm is faced with environmental litigation. We do not, however, find support that audit quality, shareholder activism, and strength of corporate governance moderate the association between Big 4 and climate risk. Lastly, while we find that the Big 4 plays a stronger effect in reducing climate risk in salient industries, we do not find any evidence that the Paris Agreement (2015) drives the association between Big 4 and climate risk. Overall, our empirical analysis helps in understanding the influence of Big 4 auditors on climate risk.

Keywords: Firm level climate risk, Big 4 auditors, Heckman selection model, Propensity Score Matching, Audit (non-audit) fees JEL Classification: M41, M42, Q54

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval not applicable.

Suggested Citation:

Hoque, Hafiz and Irfan, Saadia, The role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating climate risk: evidence from earnings conference call-based climate risk (March 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
178 References
K K Agoraki , M Giaka , D Konstantios , I Negkakis
The relationship between firm-level climate change exposure, financial integration, cost of capital and investment efficiency
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 141 Posted: 2024
M F Ahmad , N Aktas , E Croci
Climate risk and deployment of corporate resources to working capital
Economics Letters , volume 224 Posted: 2023
J Al-Ajmi
Audit firm, corporate governance, and audit quality: Evidence from Bahrain
Advances in accounting , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 74 Posted: 2009
A W Alam , A Farjana , R Houston
State-level economic policy uncertainty (EPU) and firm financial stability: Is there any political insurance?
Economics Letters , volume 225 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
RANK
271,971
178 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies