Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Non-Audit Services on Auditor Independence in European Banks

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series no. 173

83 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Thi Thu Thao Nguyen

Independent

Date Written: June 3, 2024

Abstract

Auditing contributes to financial stability by protecting investors from information risk, which in turn reduces the cost of capital for companies. To fulfil this role, auditors are desired to provide an unbiased opinion about financial statement. The value of audited financial statements rests on the assumption that the auditors are independent of their clients.

However, when investigating the determinants of the 2008 financial crisis, the auditors were strongly questioned for not anticipating the banking problems. In response to the financial crisis, the EU Commission issued the Green Paper “Audit Policy: Lessons from the Crisis” in October 2010 to initiate a discussion about potentially necessary reform measures on the role and scope of the statutory audit as well as concerning the audit market. The EU Regulators assume that non-audit services fees weaken auditor independence and, as a result, impair audit quality. As a consequence, the European Union adopted the EU Regulation No. 537/2014 (hereinafter EU or Audit Regulation), which in practice prohibits the joint provision of audit and most types of non-audit services in Public Interest Entities ("PIE") including banks.

Most of the empirical literature does not show evidence that non-audit services fees impair auditor independence. Nevertheless, the appropriateness of non-audit services provided by auditors remains controversial. Furthermore, in the last decade, a lot has changed in both the regulations and the country's enforcement regarding audit and non-audit services, and there has been little EU-based evidence since the EU Regulation 537/2014 came into force. As a result, further research is needed to examine the relationship between non-audit services and auditor independence. Despite the economic importance of the banking industry, accounting researchers have done little to investigate the various relationships that exist between banks and their auditors. To complement existing research in this matter, this study aims to investigate the impact of non-audit services on auditor independence in the banking sector.

The following study contributes to the research by emphasizing the effect of other banks’ characteristics and audit partner tenure on auditor independence. In addition, the study will provide evidence on whether the relationship between non-audit services fees and auditor independence varies between different audit firms. Furthermore, nearly all previous studies are single-country studies. Accordingly, it is not possible to distinguish slight differences between results from different countries. Thus, the present study aims to examine how cross-country differences in the strength of banking regulation impact the association between non-audit services fees and auditor independence. The analysis is limited to seven Member countries of the European Union since the total assets of these banks constitute over 90% of the total assets of all significant European banks. This study should be of interest to regulators, audit firms, and banks because it advances the understanding of the potential issues related to the joint provision of audit and non-audit services.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Non-audit Services, Banks, Audit Firms, EU Audit Regulation, Green Paper, Banking Regulation, Country Specifics

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, K22, K23, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Nguyen, Thi Thu Thao, The Impact of Non-Audit Services on Auditor Independence in European Banks (June 3, 2024). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series no. 173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
144 References
Cf , Deangelo
Posted: 1981
Cf , Beck
, p. 50 - 64 Posted: 1988
Cf , Ostrowski , Söder
Posted: 1999
Cf , Antle
Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
RANK
262,460
144 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies