Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audits of Non-GAAP Earnings: Evidence from Adjusted EBITDA in Segment Disclosures

49 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Antonis Kartapanis

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: September 23, 2024

Abstract

We provide evidence on an important question to capital markets: “Would subjecting non-GAAP metrics to audit affect the quality of the metrics?” Focusing on instances where adjusted EBITDA is disclosed in firms' segment notes, which subjects the EBITDA metric to audit requirements, we find that the adjustments made when calculating EBITDA are of higher quality when subject to audit. Further tests help rule out concerns that the results are driven by a firm commitment to having high-quality adjusted EBITDA or firms with more informative EBITDA being more likely to use adjusted EBITDA in segment notes. We also find that analysts follow manager-provided adjusted EBITDA more when the measures are audited and that managers disclose audited EBITDA metrics more prominently in their earnings announcements. Overall, our evidence indicates that, at least in the context of our study, the answer to our research question is yes—auditing non-GAAP metrics affects their quality.

Keywords: adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP, audit

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Kartapanis, Antonis and Whipple, Benjamin C., Audits of Non-GAAP Earnings: Evidence from Adjusted EBITDA in Segment Disclosures (September 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4852518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4852518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
K Adame , J L Koski , K Lem , S E Mcvay
Free Cash Flow Disclosure in Earnings Announcements Posted: 2020
A Adhikari , A Duru
Voluntary Disclosure of Free Cash Flow Information
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2006
A Albrecht , J Chen , K Nelson
When are GAAP losses not a concern? Evidence from auditors' going concern opinions and alternative measures of profitability Posted: 2023
S Anderson , J Hobson , R Sommerfeldt
Auditing non-GAAP measures: Signaling more than intended
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 577 - 606 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
185,220
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies