Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Decoupling Damage Awards On Financial Reporting and Auditing

31 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 01, 2009

Abstract

In the setting of audit failures, decoupling involves breaking the connection between the damages paid by the fraudulent owner and negligent auditor from the damages received by the plaintiff shareholders. This article analyzes the effects of a simple form of decoupling have on an owner's financial reporting decision, an auditor's audit quality choice, and investors' pricing decisions within the context of a perfectly competitive securities market and owner solvency constraints. The strategic interactions between the players' strategies are analyzed within a setting where payoffs are endogenously determined and vary with the liability regime. The main finding is that the audit failure rate can decrease when there is a switch from a coupled to a decoupled liability regime, despite the fact that audit quality also declines. This result occurs when there are strategic interactions between the owner's reporting strategy and the auditor's quality decision.

Keywords: auditing, financial reporting, decoupling, liability regimes

Suggested Citation:

Hillegeist, Stephen A., The Effects of Decoupling Damage Awards On Financial Reporting and Auditing (September 01, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4854375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4854375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Statement of Auditing Standards No. 82: Consideration of Fraud in Financial Statements Posted: 1997
S Datar , J Feltham , J Hughes
The Role of Audits and Audit Quality in Valuing New Issues
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 3 - 49 Posted: 1991-03
N Dopuch , D Ingberman , R King
An Experimental Investigation of Multi-defendant Bargaining in 'Joint-and-Several' and proportionate liability regimes
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , p. 189 - 221 Posted: 1997-07
N Dopuch , R King , J Schatzberg
An Experimental Investigation of Alternative Damage-Sharing Liability Regimes with an Auditing Perspective
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue Supplement , p. 103 - 130 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies