Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Staffing Leverage at the Audit Office and Audit Quality

55 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024

Joshua Khavis

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Mengtian Li

The University of North Carolina at Greensboro

Brandon Szerwo

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) posits that manager staffing leverage, primarily through greater manager availability and oversight, is an important audit quality indicator and performance metric. We test this notion by empirically examining the link between manager staffing leverage, as measured by the manager-to-employee ratio at the audit office, and audit client outcomes from 2008 to 2019. We find manager staffing leverage is associated with lower client misstatement rates, suggesting higher audit quality. When disaggregated, the association pertains to middle managers but not to partners. This relation is stronger for more important and more complex clients and for offices that experience high growth, offer greater career opportunities, and better compensate their auditors. We also find that manager staffing leverage measured at the firm level predicts audit quality, suggesting that firm-provided workforce data may be useful for inferring audit quality. Managerial leverage is also linked to higher costs in the form of higher audit fees and longer audit lags. Finally, we document that auditors with higher manager leverage are less likely to be dismissed by important clients, suggesting offices with greater manager leverage are better equipped to maintain important relationships by strategically allocating their managerial staff. 

Keywords: auditor human capital, staffing leverage, audit quality, audit fees, audit lag, auditor switching

Suggested Citation:

Khavis, Joshua and Li, Mengtian and Szerwo, Brandon, Manager Staffing Leverage at the Audit Office and Audit Quality (May 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4856541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4856541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
G A Akerlof
Labor contracts as partial gift exchange
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
T D Allen , L T Eby , M L Poteet , E Lentz , L Lima
Career benefits associated with mentoring for protégés: A meta-analysis
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 136 Posted: 2004
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processpreliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
456,685
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies