Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does assurance improve the quality and value relevance of non-GAAP earnings?

48 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: June 10, 2024

Abstract

Standard-setters and regulators worldwide have expressed concern about the quality and consistency of non-GAAP reporting. To address these concerns, stakeholder groups have encouraged standard-setters to require assurance over, and reporting of, non-GAAP earnings in the financial statements. We test whether non-GAAP earnings reported within the scope of the audited financial statements (i.e., on the income statement or within the footnotes) are more value relevant and higher quality than non-GAAP earnings reported elsewhere in the annual report. Among a sample of U.K. companies, we find that non-GAAP earnings are more value relevant and higher quality when they are audited and reported within the financial statements. We find no difference in value relevance or quality between non-GAAP earnings that are reported on the income statement versus disclosed in the footnotes. However, non-GAAP earnings are less value relevant when reported as a column on the income statement rather than in rows. Our results are consistent with stakeholders’ suggestions to require assurance of non-GAAP reporting and provide evidence on the formatting and placement of non-GAAP earnings within the financial statements.


Keywords: non-GAAP assurance, non-GAAP earnings quality, non-GAAP earnings value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Hallman, Nicholas and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Thompson, Anne, Does assurance improve the quality and value relevance of non-GAAP earnings? (June 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4861966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does Recognition versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
S M Albring , M T Cabán-García , J L Reck
The value relevance of a non-GAAP performance metric to the capital markets
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , p. 264 - 284 Posted: 2010
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , R D Sommerfeldt
Auditing Non-GAAP Measures: Signaling More Than Intended
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 577 - 606 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
456,685
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies