Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Role of Engagement Characteristics in Internal Quality Reviews and PCAOB Inspections of Component Auditor Work for US Issuers

Posted: 18 Jul 2024 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Denise Downey

Villanova University

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

This study uses proprietary data from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) to investigate quality of the audit process in component audits of US issuer engagements performed by non-U.S. network firms. Our process quality measures are derived from the firms’ Internal Quality Reviews (IQRs) and PCAOB international inspections, which both monitor compliance with professional standards. We study engagement characteristics influencing inspection selection and outcomes (deficiency), using Heckman models to control for selection bias in the outcome models. Results show that IQR selection is more likely for component audit engagements with more non-US labor, more US-specific procedures, and lower profitability; and among non-US firms with fewer US issuer clients, fewer professionals, and more dispersed offices. These findings imply that IQR inspectors perceive resource constraints as key inhibitors of audit quality in US-referred work. Similarly, IQR outcome models show that deficiencies are more likely in engagements with more non-US labor, lower profitability, and in firms with fewer professionals. In contrast, PCAOB Part I deficiencies are more likely in engagements with higher profitability and longer tenure, suggesting influence of commercial incentives rather than resource constraints. Our findings contribute to understanding of factors influencing the quality of the audit process as viewed by internal and regulatory inspections in an important but under-researched sector of the audit market. The observed variation in determinants across programs contributes to the literature on drivers of audit quality and should be useful to both firms and regulators in calibrating their inspection programs and interpreting their findings.




Keywords: group audits, component auditors, audit process deficiencies, audit economics, auditor tenure, multinational company reporting

Suggested Citation:

Downey, Denise and Bedard, Jean C. and Boland, Colleen M.,

The Role of Engagement Characteristics in Internal Quality Reviews and PCAOB Inspections of Component Auditor Work for US Issuers

(March 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4865378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4865378
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies