Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of U.S. Multinational Group Audits: Evidence from PCAOB Data

49 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024 Last revised: 20 Feb 2025

Denise Downey

Villanova University

Andrew Kitto

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

Macroeconomic forces have recently challenged the ability of audit firms to sustain engagement profitability. While principal auditors in multinational audits may use non-US firms to audit client operations, the economic impacts of these choices are unclear. We investigate labor allocation, cost sharing and engagement profitability in Big 6 audits from 2012-2022. Descriptive statistics show increasing allocation of labor to non-US firms over that period, and determinants models identify factors influencing participation of non-US labor. Hypothesis tests show global hours increase and global billing rates decline with extent of non-US labor, especially at high levels of participation. While this implies that principal auditors share cost savings with clients, US firms' engagement realizations rise with increasing substitution of non-US labor, incentivizing more extensive use. Further analysis shows recent reduction in cost sharing, suggesting declining competition. However, we find that audit quality is not reduced by greater substitution of non-US labor. 

Keywords: Multinational audits, group audits, principal auditors, component auditors, labor allocation, cost sharing, engagement profitability

Suggested Citation:

Downey, Denise and Kitto, Andrew and Bedard, Jean C., The Economics of U.S. Multinational Group Audits: Evidence from PCAOB Data (December 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4865299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor supply drought: The case of accountant talent shortage and audit outcomes Posted: 2024
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
J Bedard , K Johnstone
Audit partner tenure and audit planning and pricing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 45 - 70 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
636,031
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies