Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Field Evidence on the Consequences of Partner Leverage in Public Audit Firms

60 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Joost van Buuren

Nyenrode Business University

Stephen Kwaku Asare

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Barbara Majoor

Independent

Date Written: June 14, 2024

Abstract

Regulators are concerned that audit firms use the partner leverage ratio (the ratio of the number of professional staff to partners in a team) to drive up profitability, potentially culminating in a negative association between the ratio and audit quality. However, auditors may also use leverage to manage risk, potentially culminating in a positive association between the ratio and audit quality. We examine how audit firms use the leverage ratio to balance the trade-off between risk and profitability by evaluating cross-sectional evidence on the association between leverage and audit quality using a proprietary and novel dataset with longitudinal data of 3,508 engagement-year observations over the period 2005 to 2015. The empirical results show a negative association between the leverage ratio and the detection of economically important misstatements. However, there was no association between the leverage ratio and waived misstatements. The misstatements detection results are more consistent with firms using leverage to drive up profitability rather than to manage risk and support the use of partner leverage ratio as an input for assessing audit quality.

Keywords: Partner Leverage, Book-or-Waive Decision, Audit Quality, Audit Quality Indicators (AQIs)

Suggested Citation:

van Buuren, Joost and Asare, Stephen Kwaku and Majoor, Barbara, Field Evidence on the Consequences of Partner Leverage in Public Audit Firms (June 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4866376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4866376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Acra
Groundbreaking Audit Quality Indicators Framework to Raise Quality of Financial Reporting in Singapore Posted: 2015
Acra-Cpaa
Deepening the Audit Quality Conversation
Singapore: Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority and CPA Australia Posted: 2020
J Antonakis , L Atwater
Leader distance: A review and a proposed theory
Leadership Perspectives , p. 129 - 160 Posted: 2017
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies