Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conflicted Regulators

56 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Rui Silva

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: May 20, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether prior employment affiliations influence the strictness of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing review process. Using novel data on over 250 accountants at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we define connected examiners as accountants reviewing financial statements audited by their former employer. We find that SEC review teams with more connected examiners are less likely to detect financial statement errors, raise fewer substantive accounting issues, and are less likely to push back on registrants' responses to comment letters. The effect of examiners' prior employment connections dissipates after approximately four years and is mitigated when the review team is larger. Our findings provide important practical insights on the boundaries of the revolving door between regulators and the regulated, suggesting that even indirect connections can impact oversight.

Keywords: conflict of interest, financial reporting oversight, prior experience, revolving door, SEC, comment letter

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kubic, Matthew and Silva, Rui and Toynbee, Sara, Conflicted Regulators (May 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4870917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4870917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
K D Allee , C Do , F G Raymundo
Principal component analysis and factor analysis in accounting research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity theory and the organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
RANK
241,875
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies