Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Audit Fees, Audit Effort, and Audit Risk Premium: Some Evidence from Greece

39 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

Using a proprietary dataset of Greek audit hours and a difference-in-differences research design, this study evaluates the effect of IFRS adoption on audit fees, audit effort, and audit risk premium.  The treated group consists of Greek listed firms that were mandated to adopt IFRS, and the control group consists of Greek private firms that still follow the national standards.  Potential effects from the IFRS adoption were examined for the two groups. The empirical results suggest that IFRS adoption caused a substantial increase in audit fees and audit hours, but it had no impact on audit billing rates. These results are robust to parallel trends and treatment concerns while they are not sensitive to the size of auditees or the presence of Big N audit firms. Collectively, the main inference is that audit firms respond to the higher audit requirements of IFRS by increasing their audit effort and their audit fees, but they do not exploit this regulatory change to shift audit risk to their clients or to engage to opportunistic pricing.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, audit fees, audit effort, audit hours, audit risk premium, audit billing rates

Suggested Citation:

Karampinis, Nikolaos I., The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Audit Fees, Audit Effort, and Audit Risk Premium: Some Evidence from Greece. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4875416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4875416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , A J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
J Angrist , J.-S Pische
Mastering metrics: The path from cause to effect Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
RANK
819,727
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies