Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Identity in Auditing Research: A Review, Synthesis and Research Agenda

38 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2024 Last revised: 23 Jun 2025

Ahmad Abdollahi

University of Algarve

Ruben Peixinho

University of Algarve

Carlos Cândido

Universidade do Algarve; CEFAGE-UAlg

Date Written: June 11, 2025

Abstract

This paper presents a systematic literature review (SLR) investigating the impact of identity in the audit process through the detailed analysis of 23 selected papers published between 2000 and 2023.The findings reveal a significant increase in research attention towards various identities within the auditing field, with particular emphasis on professional identity. However, the collective impact of organizational, client, gender and team identities in the audit research is also explored. These investigations shed light on the influence of identities on diverse outcomes of auditing, including audit quality, audit objectivity, audit judgment and audit skepticism. Despite notable progress, certain areas within this domain warrant further exploration to deepen our understanding of the complex relationship between identities and auditing processes. Numerous unexplored facets and gaps present opportunities for future research, offering valuable insights for audit firms, policymakers, and regulators. This SLR represents a pioneering effort in investigating identity within auditing research, extending theoretical knowledge and providing practical recommendations for future research directions. Its insights are valuable for stakeholders in the audit profession and contribute to the ongoing discussion in the field.

Keywords: Identity, Audit research, Auditor process, Systematic Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Abdollahi, Ahmad and Peixinho, Ruben and Cândido, Carlos, The Role of Identity in Auditing Research: A Review, Synthesis and Research Agenda (June 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4878598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4878598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Edgley , K Robson , N Sharma
Organizational responses to multiple logics: Diversity, identity and the professional service firm
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 103 Posted: 2022
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget..": the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
N Aranya , K R Ferris
A reexamination of accountants' organizational-professional conflict
Accounting review , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1984
N Arrami , Y Qing Xiang
Impact of ethical training on auditors' ethical decision making in Morocco
Studia Universitatis Vasile Goldiș Arad, Seria Științe Economice , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 41 - 64 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
567
RANK
872,691
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies