Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geopolitical Risk and Audit Outcomes

Posted: 31 Jul 2024

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Date Written: June 29, 2024

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the association between firms' geopolitical risk (GPR) and auditor behaviour. We collect data from the US firms, consisting of 20,517 firm-year observations, for the period 2000 to 2021. Our analysis documents positive relationships between a firm's GPR and audit fees, audit delay, the probability of a financial restatement, the likelihood of the auditor issuing a going concern opinion, and the probability of the auditor issuing an opinion on the strength of internal controls. Our baseline results robust identification tests including Lewbel's 2SLS test, propensity score matching approach and quasi-natural experiment. Finally, we show that the specialised auditor, efficient governance, reduced information gap, and the proximity of client firms to the auditor's head office mediate the adverse effects of GPR on auditor behaviour Overall, our study offers crucial policy implications for business managers and standard setters.

Keywords: audit risk, geopolitical uncertainty, audit outcome, corporate governance, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Puwanenthiren, Premkanth, Geopolitical Risk and Audit Outcomes (June 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4880906
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
411
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies