Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collaborative AI-Based Multimodal Auditing: Integrating Foundation Models into Robotic Process Automation

48 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024 Last revised: 27 Apr 2025

Hanchi Gu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Marco Schreyer

International Computer Science Institute (ICSI); University of St. Gallen

Kevin Moffitt

Rutgers University

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Audit procedures involve complex datasets across tabular, textual, and visual formats, but existing frameworks in auditing literature lack the flexibility to handle diverse procedures efficiently. This paper explores the feasibility of a collaborative AI-based multimodal auditing system that integrates foundation models into Robotic Process Automation (RPA) to automate audit processes. Experiments from different preset scenarios demonstrate that the latest publicly available foundation models have the potential to support such a system. In addition, the study demonstrates the importance of including non-routine audit procedures in RPA. The paper further introduces key terminologies related to generative AI to help accounting researchers better understand emerging technologies.

Keywords: auditing, accounting information system., artificial intelligence, foundation models, robotic process automation

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Hanchi and Schreyer, Marco and Moffitt, Kevin and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Collaborative AI-Based Multimodal Auditing: Integrating Foundation Models into Robotic Process Automation (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4881256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4881256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
AICPA Standard 315: Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Posted: 2011
2021. AU-C Section 200 Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing Standards
C Anthony , B A Bechky , A L Fayard
Collaborating" with AI: Taking a system view to explore the future of work
Organization Science , volume 34 , issue 5 , p. 1672 - 1694 Posted: 2023
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big Data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
291,291
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies