Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Employee Turnover: Implications for Audit Quality

57 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Linde Kerckhofs

IESEG School of Management

Christophe Van Linden

Oslo Metropolitan University

Marie-Laure Vandenhaute

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

Using data on the audits of a large sample of Belgian private and public companies and direct human capital metrics, we examine the effect of audit firm-level employee turnover on audit quality. First, we document a negative effect of turnover on audit quality. Second, we find that voluntary departures and abnormal turnover drive this effect. Third, we identify audit firm-level factors that moderate this effect. Three audit firm characteristics mitigate the impact: higher partner staffing leverage, employee replacement, and industry specialization. We also observe a stronger negative effect among the subset of bigger audit firms and those that have higher employee workload and more new clients. Our study contributes to the literature and practice by providing insights into 1) how different types of audit firm-level employee turnover impact audit quality in a lower litigation risk environment, and 2) how audit firms can combat the negative effect of employee turnover.

Keywords: human capital, audit firms, employee turnover, audit quality

Declaration of Interest

The authors report there are no competing interests to declare.

Suggested Citation:

Kerckhofs, Linde and Van Linden, Christophe and Vandenhaute, Marie-Laure and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Audit Firm Employee Turnover: Implications for Audit Quality (July 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4881892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4881892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
M Abelson , B Baysinger
Optimal and dysfunctional turnover: towards an organizational level model
Academy of Management Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 331 - 341 Posted: 1984
Standing firm during taxing times. 2022 PCPS CPA firm top issues survey Posted: 2022
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,043
RANK
198,294
3 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies