Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Semantic Similarity in Japanese Key Audit Matters

2024 16th International Congress on Advanced Applied Informatics (IIAI-AAI)

8 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Nobushige Doi

Japan Exchange Group, Inc.; University of Tokyo

Yusuke Nobuta

Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc.

Takeshi MIZUNO

Japan Exchange Group, Inc.

Date Written: April 20, 2024

Abstract

In this study, some methods based on natural language processing for automatically evaluating the semantic similarity of key audit matters (KAMs) in audit reports of publicly listed companies in Japan were proposed. KAMs are issues that auditors deem particularly significant in a financial statement audit, and their reporting enhances transparency and facilitates audit quality assessment. However, the issue of  "boilerplate" (i.e., the standardization of KAM content) was identified. To address this issue, the similarity between KAMs was precisely measured using indicators based on word frequency, word matching rates, and context-embedded vectors. The results were compared with those obtained using manual annotations, which indicated that the evaluation based on word match rate effectively measured the degree of boilerplate. Moreover, the evaluation based on context embedding vectors effectively captured the semantic similarity of KAMs.

Keywords: Auditing, Financial disclosure, Key Audit Matters, Similarity metric, Textual analysis

Suggested Citation:

Doi, Nobushige and Nobuta, Yusuke and MIZUNO, Takeshi, Measuring Semantic Similarity in Japanese Key Audit Matters (April 20, 2024). 2024 16th International Congress on Advanced Applied Informatics (IIAI-AAI), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4884932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4884932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Awareness Document on the Third Year of Application of the Key Audit Matters (KAM) Posted: 2024-04-20
Antti Rautiainen , Jani Saastamoinen , Kati Pajunen
Do key audit matters (kams) matter? auditors' perceptions of kams and audit quality in finland
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 386 - 404 Posted: 2021
Derek K Chan , Nanqin Liu
The Effects of Critical Audit Matter Disclosure on Audit Effort, Investor Scrutiny, and Investment Efficiency , volume 98 , p. 97 - 121 Posted: 2023
Muttanachai Suttipun
Impact of key audit matters (kams) reporting on audit quality: evidence from thailand , volume 22 , p. 869 - 882 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
776
RANK
631,616
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies