Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Talent Gap: Implications for the Audit Market




52 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2024 Last revised: 15 Jan 2025

Qin Tan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Ruiting(Dan) Dai

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Yiwen Li

Villanova University

Date Written: July 10, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the implications of accounting pipeline shortages on the audit market. Using education data from IPEDS, we demonstrate a significant decline in the accounting pipeline post 2015. The scale of local accounting graduates is negatively correlated with future audit quality. Importantly, investing in human capital with data science skills mitigates the harm of accounting pipeline shortages: clients hiring more accountants with such skills do not suffer from their auditors’ labor shortage, particularly when their likelihood of non-clerical restatements is examined; auditors employing more dedicated data science personnel also do not see their labor shortage being associated with their clients’ likelihood of non-clerical or material restatements. The harm of labor shortages is more pronounced for clients in the same state facing similar labor shocks, clients with weaker market power, and auditors in states with a smaller stock of accountants or lower wage growth for accountants. 

Keywords: accounting pipeline shortages, accounting graduates supply, audit quality, restatements, data science skills

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Qin and Dai, Ruiting and Martin, Xiumin and Li, Yiwen, Accounting Talent Gap: Implications for the Audit Market (July 10, 2024).
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor Supply Drought: The Case of Accountant Talent Shortage and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2024
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
A P Bartel , N D Beaulieu , C S Phibbs , P W Stone
Human capital and productivity in a team environment: evidence from the healthcare sector
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 259 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
189,166
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies