Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Job Vacancy Duration

Posted: 7 Aug 2024

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Xiaotao Kelvin Liu

DMSB - Accounting

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

There have been mounting concerns about the difficulties in filling audit staff positions. Nevertheless, empirical research is limited as to whether the audit labor market frictions compromise audit processes and outcomes. This study aims to fill this gap by focusing on the audit staff hiring delay or vacancy duration, which represents the time an audit office spends searching, selecting, and hiring for an audit staff job position. Using granular job posting data, we provide robust evidence that the audit staff hiring delay is associated with deteriorated audit quality. This association is largely driven by delays in hiring middle-level (versus lower- or higher-level) staff and accounting (versus technical and management) skills. We also find that the adverse effect of audit staff hiring delay is more pronounced for offices facing greater audit complexity, tighter audit schedules, and higher competition. By contrast, the effect is attenuated for offices with greater non-audit services and analytic capabilities. 

Funder Statement

We thank the Institute of Management Accountants for the funding support.

Suggested Citation:

Golden, Joanna and Liu, Xiaotao Kelvin, Audit Job Vacancy Duration (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4891945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies