Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is auditors' migration status associated with their performance?

45 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2024

Wen He

Monash University

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Yi Si

The School of Management, Xi'an Jiaotong University

Date Written: July 19, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether audit quality is associated with auditors' migration status at the time of their entry to the job market after obtaining their academic degrees. Moving from less (more) to more (less) economically developed regions is termed as upward (downward) migration. Using a large sample of auditors in China, we find that upwards (downwards) migrating auditors tend to deliver higher quality (lower quality) audits than nonmigrating auditors. The association between migration status and audit quality varies predictably with auditor and client characteristics. Upwards migrating auditors are more successful in their career development than local auditors, and investors and clients appear to understand the varying audit quality provided by migrating auditors. Overall, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that employers underestimate (overestimate) the ability of upwards (downwards) migrating graduates in the recruitment process.

Keywords: Auditor, audit quality, Migration, audit partner, graduates

Suggested Citation:

He, Wen and Li, Chao and Si, Yi, Is auditors' migration status associated with their performance? (July 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899779 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aobdia
Why shouldn't higher IQ audit partners deliver better audits? A discussion of Kallunki, Kallunki, Niemi and Nilsson
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 1371 - 1415 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
Why shouldn't higher IQ audit partners deliver better audits? A discussion of Kallunki, Kallunki, Niemi and Nilsson
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1371 - 1415 Posted: 2019
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
453
RANK
713,739
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Labor & Social Conditions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies