Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where does the time go? Auditors' commercial effort, professional effort, and audit quality

83 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2024

Will Ciconte

School of Business, University of Kansas; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy; University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Marleen Willekens

KU Leuven

Date Written: July 23, 2024

Abstract

Audit theory and regulation assumes that auditors' commercial motivation threatens audit quality. In this registered report, we use data from two Big Four firms in the Netherlands and provide empirical evidence on the relation between auditors' commercial motivation and (1) compensation, (2) total audit effort, and (3) audit quality. We proxy commercial motivation as the time that individual auditors report allocating to commercial activities. We hypothesize that auditors' commercial effort is positively related to compensation and we find mixed support. Next, we hypothesize that auditors' commercial effort is negatively related to the audit effort but we find no support. Turning to audit quality, we hypothesize a negative direct relation between auditors' commercial effort and audit quality but we find no support. We also predict a positive indirect relation in which auditors' commercial effort increases quality control reliance leading to higher audit quality. We find some support for this hypothesis but only when we use technical consultations to proxy for quality control. Auditors with greater commercial effort maintain quality because they rely more on technical consultations. In sum, our study challenges the assumption that auditors' commercial effort threatens audit quality and questions the need for additional regulation to constrain commercial motivation.

Keywords: commercialism, audit quality, professionalism, audit effort, compensation, quality control

JEL Classification: L23, L84, M40, M41, M42, M52

Suggested Citation:

Ciconte, Will and Leiby, Justin and Willekens, Marleen, Where does the time go? Auditors' commercial effort, professional effort, and audit quality (July 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
B Aeon , H Aguinis
It's about time: New perspectives and insights on time management
Academy of Management Perspective , volume 31 , p. 309 - 330 Posted: 2017
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang
How does audit firm emphasis on client relationship quality influence auditors' inferences about and responses to potential persuasion in client communications?
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 87 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2020
S Aghazadeh , M Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
C Agoglia , R Hatfield , T Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Brant E. Christensen , Matthew Ege , Nathan Y. Sharp , Thomas Jeffrey Wilks
What Do Public Company Audit Clients Want from Their Auditor?
55 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 1 Oct 2025 · Downloads: 598
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
645
RANK
614,410
1 Citations
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies