Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytic Visualizations Informing the Audit Risk Assessment: The Impact of Default Visualization Form and Documentation Focus

42 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024

Becca N. Baaske

The University of Tampa

Uday Murthy

University of South Florida

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

Data visualization tools commonly default to specific visualizations, which may not always align optimally with client contexts or audit cues. Relying solely on default visualizations without adequate interaction can potentially impede auditors' anomaly detection and risk assessment, impairing audit effectiveness. In a 2x2 experiment, we examine the impact of default visualization (optimal or less-than-optimal) and documentation focus (supporting or balanced focus) on anomaly identification and risk assessment judgments. Our findings indicate that auditors often anchor on default visualizations, even if less-than-optimal, resulting in diminished anomaly detection and lower risk assessments. A documentation focus aimed at supporting one's judgments prompts auditors to search for and document more high-risk evidence, spend more time engaging with visualizations, and accurately identify true anomalies when faced with less-than-optimal default visualizations. This study should be of interest to accounting firms and standard setters striving to enhance audit quality with data visualizations during risk assessment. 

Keywords: Data visualizations, anomalies, documentation focus, risk assessment, default effect

Suggested Citation:

Baaske, Becca and Murthy, Uday, Data Analytic Visualizations Informing the Audit Risk Assessment: The Impact of Default Visualization Form and Documentation Focus (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4904870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Andrew Abela
Choosing a good chart. The Extreme Presentation ™ Method Posted: 2006
C P Agoglia , C Beaudoin , G T Tsakumis
The effect of documentation structure and task specific experience on auditors' ability to identify control weaknesses
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2009
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Audit Data Analytics (ADAs) Can Transform Audits; New AICPA Guide Will Help Auditors Apply ADA Techniques Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
799,009
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies