Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Assurance and Comparability of Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting


62 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2024 Last revised: 20 Jan 2025

Zvi Singer

HEC Montreal

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Jiali Luo

HEC Montreal

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

Recent environmental, social, and governance (ESG) regulations mandate external assurance of
reported greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Among the potential benefits, regulators stipulate an
increase in comparability. We examine the effect of ESG assurance on comparability and find that
companies with ESG assurance report more comparable GHG emissions. Comparability is further
enhanced when companies use the same assurance provider and when the provider is more
experienced. We also find evidence that comparability is higher when assurance is provided by
consulting and engineering firms than by accounting firms. Finally, we show that companies with
higher GHG comparability receive higher environmental score. We complement our study with
interviews with senior environmental assurers that corroborate our empirical findings. Our study
provides important insights on the value of ESG assurance to regulators worldwide, and in
particular in the U.S., where these regulations are highly controversy.


Keywords: ESG assurance, greenhouse gas emissions, comparability, assurance provider, assurance experience

Funder Statement

We acknowledge financial support from the CPA Canada – CAAA Research Grant.

JEL Classification: G18, M14, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Singer, Zvi and Zhang, Jing and Burke, Jenna and Luo, Jiali, ESG Assurance and Comparability of Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting
(January 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4905079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K Bakarich , D Baranek , P O'brian
The current state and future implications of environmental, social, and governance assurance
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - A21
B Ballou , P Chen , J H Grenier , D L Heitger
Corporate social responsibility assurance and reporting quality: Evidence from restatements
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , p. 167 - 188 Posted: 2018
F Berg , J Huidobro , R Rigobon ; Cahan , S F , J Sun
On the importance of assurance in carbon accounting. Working paper, MIT Sloan School of Management
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 30 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Y Cai , Y Kim , J C Park , H D White
Common auditors in M&A transactions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , p. 77 - 99 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
151,526
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies