Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Talking to new auditors about client service

22 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2024 Last revised: 29 Jul 2025

Michael Ricci

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Richard C. Hatfield

University of Alabama

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Eddie Thomas

Georgia College & State University

Date Written: July 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper challenges practitioners and educators to reconsider how they talk to new auditors about the client service aspect of auditing. New auditors will undoubtedly be coached to provide excellent client service (e.g., to communicatetimely, work around client schedules, make small talk). While it might be tempting to frame these practices as commercial endeavors that are separable from, or even inconsistent with, auditors’ responsibility to the public, emerging research linksthese practices to improvements in audit quality. We synthesize this research and, based on the evidence, propose that high quality client service can be presented to new auditors as a strategic tool that elicits client cooperation and empowers auditors to ask tough questions. We then report experimental evidence indicating that students respond more positively to strategic than commercial framing of client service when these alternatives are directly contrasted, but not when this contrast is absent.

Keywords: client service, client satisfaction, novice auditors, career outcomes, skepticism

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

IRB approval was obtained.

Suggested Citation:

Ricci, Michael and Hatfield, Richard C. and Hoang, Kris and Thomas, Edward, Talking to new auditors about client service (July 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4912861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4912861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Negin Sharifi Khaksari , Reza Hesarzadeh , Mahmoud Lari Dashtbayaz , Ameneh Bazrafshan , Ali Saeedi
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Professional Scepticism
Australian Accounting Review , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 49 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
538
RANK
505,351
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies