Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Audit Automation Adoption Among Audit Firms in Ghana

24 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2024

Cornelius Adorm-Takyi

University of Cape Coast - School of Business

George Tackie

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Anthony Idun

University of Cape Coast - Department of Finance

Abstract

Automation is widely recognised to be revolutionising the auditing profession. Despite the known benefits, it is reported that auditors are not fully leveraging the potential value of certain automated tools and techniques. To understand why, this study aims to draw on the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT) to empirically examine the determinants of audit automation adoption by audit firms in Ghana. The study conforms to the positivist paradigm which agrees with the quantitative approach and an explanatory research design; structured questionnaires were administered to 190 audit firms in good standing with the Institute of Chartered Accountants Ghana (ICAG) using Google Forms. Partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) via Smart PLS was used for the analysis and testing of the hypotheses. Importance Performance Map Analysis (IPMA) was conducted to enhance a deeper understanding of the findings. Performance expectancy and effort expectancy have a positive and significant influence on audit automation adoption by audit firms in Ghana. This implies that auditors will be willing to use audit automation when they perceive that it will enhance their performance and that the use of audit automation will mean less effort will be required from the auditors. The study makes a practical contribution by advancing the understanding of the importance of performance expectancy and effort expectancy as determinants of audit automation adoption. The paper is one of the few studies that further employs the importance performance map-analysis (IPMA) to emphasise the significant constructs. This extends the theoretical understanding of the UTAUT model.

Keywords: Audit automation adoption, UTAUT, audit firms, Ghana, PLS-SEM, IPMA

Suggested Citation:

Adorm-Takyi, Cornelius and Tackie, George and Idun, Anthony, Determinants of Audit Automation Adoption Among Audit Firms in Ghana. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4912873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Ahmi , S Kent
The utilisation of generalized audit software (GAS) by external auditors
Managerial Auditing Journal, Emerald Insight , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 113 Posted: 2012
A Al-Hiyari , N Al Said , E Hattab
Factors that influence the use of computerassisted audit techniques (CAATs) by internal auditors in Jordan
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2019
R O Al-Khasawneh
Challenges facing external auditors while auditing banking accounting systems in the light of the use of digital technologies of the fourth industrial revolution in Jordan
American Journal of Industrial and Business Management , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 672 - 698 Posted: 2022
D A Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Analytical procedures in external auditing: A comprehensive literature survey and framework for external audit analytics
Journal of Accounting Literature, Emerald Insight , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 101 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
834,175
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies