Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Third-party auditor liability risk and trade credit policies
Forthcoming in the British Accounting Review

44 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024

Anthony Kyiu

Durham University

Bernard Tawiah

Southern Utah University - School of Business

Kwabena Boasiako

Manchester Metropolitan University

Sylvester Adasi Manu

Neoma Business School

Date Written: June 03, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the effect of Third-Party Auditor Liability (TPAL) risk on firms' trade credit policies. Exploiting the staggered state-level changes to TPAL in the US as a quasi-natural experiment, we find that firms in states with a higher risk of TPAL increase their use of trade credit. This relationship is more pronounced for firms with a more enhanced information environment, those with greater financial constraints, and those whose auditors are more exposed to litigation risk. Overall, our findings provide evidence of how TPAL affects firms' short-term financing needs.

Keywords: Auditor liability, short-term financing, trade credits JEL classification: G30, G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kyiu, Anthony and Tawiah, Bernard and Boasiako, Kwabena and Adasi Manu, Sylvester, Third-party auditor liability risk and trade credit policies
Forthcoming in the British Accounting Review (June 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4915218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , M M Hasan , B Eulaiwi
Third-party auditor liability and financial restatements
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2022
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the united states and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
W R Baber , K R Kumar , T Verghese
Client security price reactions to the laventhol and horwath bankruptcy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 395 Posted: 1995
J.-N Barrot
Trade credit and industry dynamics: Evidence from trucking firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 5 , p. 1975 - 2016 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
440
RANK
741,983
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies