Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Oversight by State Audit


Yale Journal on Regulation, forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2024 Last revised: 13 Mar 2025

Daniel B. Rosenbaum

Michigan State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

Today’s local governments are beset by multifaceted crises.  They face cascading resource and capacity constraints, operate under the shadow of unpredictable, often punitive acts of preemption by state legislatures, and respond to pressing social issues within a broad climate of institutional mistrust.  To help localities confront these challenges, state governments have looked to an influential corner of the sub-federal bureaucracy: to the office of the state auditor, which in most jurisdictions counts a range of local oversight and guidance functions among its mission.  State auditors are sources of expertise, capable of suggesting governance reforms to local actors otherwise stretched too thin to implement them themselves.  Moreover, auditors do not speak for politicized state legislatures, which have been criticized as both too intrusive and too disinterested in local affairs, but ostensibly as an apolitical executive officer, a rare state actor granted tools to pull back the veil of local administration.  And auditors are instruments of institutional trust.  They can reinforce, or help bring about, citizens’ faith in their local democracies.
Against this backdrop, drawing upon expansive constitutional and statutory powers, state auditors have turned in recent years to “performance audits”—defined as formal reviews of the economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of an organization’s programs and operations—to examine wide-ranging facets of local governance.  Auditing has quietly become a vehicle of subnational policymaking and an alternative way for state and local officials to communicate preferences outside the glare of legislative preemption.  As audit offices grow in political power and prominence, however, they risk upending the same democratic virtues their audits are designed to enhance.  Less so arbiters of neutral expertise, auditors can promote state-level policy goals to the detriment of local experimentation, inhibiting rather than advancing the exercise of local democracy.  Less so agents of trust, auditors can become flashpoint political actors in their own right, sometimes in lockstep with a governor’s agenda and sometimes in opposition to it.
This Article is the first to confront these issues.  It draws upon comparative international research, local government theory, interviews with dozens of local officials, and an original dataset of hundreds of primary documents to construct what is believed the largest study of local performance auditing and its institutional outcomes to date.  Based on this study, the Article argues that performance audits may offer a profitable balance between the virtues and vices of localism, a system by which states can meaningfully shape local policy without infringing upon local democracy.  Yet audits are more impactful in some communities than they are in others, a reminder that governance problems do not afflict local institutions equally and that one-size-fits-all solutions might neglect realities on the ground.
The Article concludes with concrete suggestions for reform, each drawn from an approach already tested elsewhere in the audit ecosystem.  In doing so, it calls for deeper engagement with public auditing regimes—an opportunity, more broadly, to excavate diverse local entities and the heterogeneous world of state oversight they inhabit.

Keywords: local government law, state government, administrative law, public administration, legislation, federalism, auditing, state and local institutions

Suggested Citation:

Rosenbaum, Daniel, Local Oversight by State Audit
(February 01, 2025). Yale Journal on Regulation, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4915921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4915921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
See infra Part I.A (defining performance audits in greater detail)
Nicole Galloway
CITY OF FAIRVIEW REPORT NO. 2022-099
Interview with Chelsie Dick , volume 25 Posted: 2022
E G See , Dave Yost , Jefferson Township
, p. 10 - 11 Posted: 2015
E G See , Sherrill F Norman
CITY OF GAINESVILLE REPORT , volume 29 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
RANK
663,174
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Legislation & Statutory Interpretation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies