Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and the Future of the Internal Audit Function: A Systematic Literature Review

15 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024

Fotis Zygoulis

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Students

Date Written: August 14, 2024

Abstract

This review work makes significant contributions to both theoretical and practical areas. For theory, it identifies unexplored study areas (research gaps), hence influencing future research orientations and theoretical underpinnings. Furthermore, this review contributes to the development of a theoretical framework (CACS), which will help stakeholders comprehend and conceptualize the use of AI in the IAF and can serve as a foundation for future research. In reality, this study assists internal auditors in assessing and understanding the possible benefits and risks of using AI in their organization's IAF.

Keywords: audit

Suggested Citation:

Zygoulis, Fotis, Artificial Intelligence and the Future of the Internal Audit Function: A Systematic Literature Review (August 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4927352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
204,845
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies