Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Office Reputation Damage and their Audit Clients' Voluntary Disclosures

47 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Mei Cheng

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Meiling Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine how client firms of reputationally-damaged auditor offices respond to perceived lower audit quality, focusing on the issuance of management forecasts. We find non-restating client firms that stay with their reputationally-damaged auditor office increase their number of management forecasts, which is consistent with a substitution effect between audited financial reporting quality and voluntary disclosure. Further, the disclosure response of these clients is more pronounced when the client firm is exposed to a higher information demand environment or is exposed to lower proprietary costs of disclosure. Finally, we document increases in management forecasts bring market benefits for clients audited by reputationally damaged auditor offices by reducing the cost of equity and improving realized returns for these firms.

Keywords: JEL classification: M41, M45: M49 auditor office, auditor reputation damage, auditor switching, management forecasts, perceived audit quality, voluntary disclosure

Funder Statement

The Dhaliwhal-Reidy School of Accountancy at the Eller College of Management at the University of Arizona and the School of Accountancy at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M49

Suggested Citation:

Michas, Paul N. and Cheng, Mei and Zhao, Meiling, Auditor Office Reputation Damage and their Audit Clients' Voluntary Disclosures (August 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4928049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4928049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies