Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-level Climate Change Risk and Audit Pricing: A Global Evidence

61 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2024

Minh Ha Nguyen

Wayne State University

Nhan (David) Huynh

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Macquarie University

Zhiteng Wang

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Date Written: June 01, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of firm-level climate change exposure on audit fees across a global sample of firms from 35 countries between 2001 and 2022. Our findings reveal that firms with higher idiosyncratic climate exposure face elevated audit fee premiums. We identify two primary mechanisms driving this relationship: corporate risks and auditing risks, both of which contribute to higher audit fees in response to heightened firm-level climate risk. Cross-sectional analyses further reveal that audit fee premiums are notably higher for firms that are less significant to auditors and for those audited by shorttenured or industry-specialized auditors. Moreover, the relationship between climate risk and audit fees is more pronounced for firms operating in vulnerable sectors and those with complex business operations. Country-specific factors, including environmental performance, regulatory quality, and governance quality, significantly influence the extent of these premiums. Our findings are robust to endogeneity concerns, alternative climate risk measures, and various model specifications, underscoring the critical role of climate risk in audit pricing.

Keywords: firm-level climate exposure, audit fees, audit risks, environmental performance JEL classifications: Q54

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Minh Ha and Huynh, Nhan and Wang, Zhiteng, Firm-level Climate Change Risk and Audit Pricing: A Global Evidence (June 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4930899 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4930899
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
373,668
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies