Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Restatements and the Audit Engagement

Fox School of Business Research Paper

44 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2024

Nicholas Cicone

Mississippi State University

Robert Knechel

University of Florida

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Misstatements in 10-K reports can take years to detect, but misstatements in a current 10-Q report can provide auditors with timely information regarding the inherent risk of a client, which may facilitate auditors responding to this risk prior to the completion of the contemporaneous audit. We examine the audit implications of 10-Q misstatements and explore how the timing of the detection and correction of these interim misstatements affects an audit. We find that auditors respond to interim restatements by charging higher fees, taking more time to complete an audit, and issuing more ICMWs. Despite these changes, interim restatements are negatively associated with year-end financial reporting quality. We further distinguish between early and late interim restatements based on whether a misstatement was corrected before or after the fiscal year-end. We find some supporting evidence that late interim restatements have greater impacts on audit engagements, consistent with the notion that late detection of misstatements allows less flexibility for the client and auditor to adjust to heightened engagement risk. Overall, we provide evidence on how interim restatements in general, and the timing of such restatements in particular, have different implications for audit engagements.

Keywords: Audit engagement, restatements, interim restatements, Financial Reporting Quality

Suggested Citation:

Cicone, Nicholas and Knechel, Robert and Park, Hyun Jong, Interim Restatements and the Audit Engagement. Fox School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4940438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4940438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
T B Bell , R Doogar , I Solomon
Audit labor usage and fees under business risk auditing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 729 - 760 Posted: 2008
L D Brown , A C Call , M B Clement , N Y Sharp
Inside the "Black Box" of Sell-Side Financial Analysts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 1 - 47 Posted: 2015
Caq
Financial Restatement Trends in the United States , p. 2013 - 2022 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
RANK
499,164
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies