Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redacted Disclosure and Audit Fees

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0 [10.1177/0148558X241260908]

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4963580

Posted: 8 Oct 2024

Xingyuan Fei

Texas A&M University-San Antonio

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Jiarui (Iris) Zhang

California State University, Long Beach

Date Written: June 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether and how redacted disclosure in material contracts is related to the cost of an audit. Prior studies document that redaction of mandatory disclosure affects firms’ operating performance, voluntary disclosure decisions, and various market outcomes due to increased information asymmetry. Auditors do not face this information constraint and can access redacted information with little effort, and thus should not be affected by the redacted disclosure. Our findings show that while redacted disclosure has limited impact on audit effort, auditors do charge higher fees for redacting firms as they perceive redacted disclosure as an indicator of potential business and litigation risk. We also find that the positive relation between redacted disclosure and audit fees is mitigated for firms with a more transparent information environment (i.e., larger firms, firms providing more voluntary disclosure, firms with large customers, and firms with higher institutional ownership). Overall, our results suggest that auditors become more cautious in response to clients’ nondisclosure choices from public filings.

Keywords: redaction, redacted disclosure, material contract, audit fees, audit risk

Suggested Citation:

Fei, Xingyuan and Sun, Estelle Yuan and Xu, Hongkang and Zhang, Jiarui, Redacted Disclosure and Audit Fees (June 24, 2024). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0 [10.1177/0148558X241260908], Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4963580, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4963580
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies