Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management with Cash Flow Hedge Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Raluca Chiorean

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Michael Kirschenheiter

College of Business Administration University of Illinois at Chicago

Ram T.S. Ramakrishnan

University of Illinois at Chicago

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms use cash flow hedge accounting to manage earnings by deferring related gain/loss amounts to other comprehensive income (designating derivatives as cash flow hedges) or transferring derivatives gain/loss amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings (de-designating derivatives as cash flow hedges). We find that firms with both incentive and opportunity to manage earnings are more likely to designate and de-designate derivatives. Our tests also indicate that earnings management via designation varies in relation to the strength of external monitoring and level of auditor expertise, as well as with changes in the reporting environment for derivatives. However, earnings management via de- designation does not vary, suggesting that the current disclosure requirements may not be sufficient for investors to detect it. Furthermore, earnings management with hedge accounting is opportunistic as it decreases earnings informativeness and increases the mispricing of cash flow hedges. Hence, we provide the first evidence that cash flow hedge accounting may be used opportunistically and does not always reflect effective hedging practices.

Keywords: Derivatives, cash flow hedge accounting, earnings management, other comprehensive income (OCI), accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI)

Suggested Citation:

Chiorean, Raluca and Kirschenheiter, Michael and Ramakrishnan, Ram T.S., Earnings Management with Cash Flow Hedge Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
148,703
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies