Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collusion or Supervision? Between Auditor and Audit Firm -Tax Planning's Perspective

Posted: 7 Nov 2024

Wen-Jye Hung

Independent

Pei-Gi Shu

Fu Jen Catholic University

Yiyin Ruan

Independent

Yamin Wang

Bentley University

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: This study investigates the impact of auditor industry specialization (AIS) on clients' tax planning at the audit firm level and individual auditor level, respectively.

Design/methodology/approach: Our sample consists of 44,637 firm-year observations of Chinese firms listed on the Shenzhen and Shanghai Stock Exchanges during the period from 2002 to 2020. The data are collected from the Taiwan Economic Journal (TEJ). Panel regression is employed to test hypotheses. Additionally, a two-stage least squares model (2SLS) is used to address concerns about possible endogeneity. 

Findings: The relationship between tax planning and AIS is significantly positive at the audit firm level, while it is significantly negative at the individual auditor level. 

Originality: We utilize manually collected data to investigate the distinct impacts of two AIS metrics on tax planning: the number of clients and the scale of clients.

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Wen-Jye and Shu, Pei-Gi and Ruan, Yiyin and Wang, Yamin, Collusion or Supervision? Between Auditor and Audit Firm -Tax Planning's Perspective (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4967900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies