Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual or Joint Audit? Managing Supplier Social Responsibility with Extortion Risk

1 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2024

Ruoxin Gao

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Ruina Yang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Abstract

Responsible sourcing is an increasingly important concern for multinational brands. Adopting responsible practices can yield additional benefits for brands, whereas reports of irresponsible practices can potentially harm their profits. Due to the lack of transparency in supply chains, brands often rely on third-party audits to ensure supplier responsibility. Unfortunately, extortion by auditors is rampant, potentially undermining suppliers' efforts and damaging brands' profits. Cooperation among brands may exacerbate the occurrence of extortion. Consequently, it is crucial for brands to decide whether to conduct joint audits with their competitors and adopt measures to mitigate extortion risks. In this paper, we establish a game-theoretic model and consider a supply chain in which two buyers source from a common supplier for the production of a product. Our findings reveal that buyers' defensive efforts against audit extortion take three different forms, depending on the degree of government intervention and the additional benefits derived from supplier responsibility. Furthermore, cooperating to conduct joint audits is not always advantageous for buyers. Specifically, buyers should refrain from adopting joint audits when the cost of auditing or the level of government intervention is low. Finally, we extend the model to explore the impact of government regulation by penalizing extortionate auditors. The results show that our insights are robust.

Keywords: Supply Chain Management, Responsible sourcing, Responsible audit, Extortion, Joint audit

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Ruoxin and Yang, Ruina, Individual or Joint Audit? Managing Supplier Social Responsibility with Extortion Risk. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4973800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4973800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
266
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies