Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do high partner workloads impair audit quality for public clients? Evidence from public and private clients

49 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2024 Last revised: 4 Feb 2025

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Angela Pettinicchio

Catholic University of Milan

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

Regulators in both Canada and the U.S. are concerned that high workloads reduce an engagement auditor’s ability to provide high quality audits to their public clients. Nevertheless, prior archival research finds no evidence that the number of clients in an engagement auditor’s portfolio affects the audit quality of their public clients. A limitation of this literature is that data constraints prevent the inclusion of private clients in measuring auditor workloads. This omission can result in large measurement errors because most auditors’ portfolios consist primarily of private clients. We overcome this limitation by using a U.K. database that includes both public and private audit clients. When both public and private clients are included, we find that engagement auditors with larger workloads provide lower quality audits to their public clients. Further, the lower audit quality is explained by engagement auditors with unusually large numbers of private clients, possibly to achieve engagement partner fee targets. We help mitigate concerns that our results are due to poorer quality auditors being assigned relatively larger portfolios by including partner fixed-effects, using instrumental variables, and employing propensity-score-matching. Our findings should help inform regulators of the effects of auditor workloads on the audit quality of listed clients.

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and DeFond, Mark and Perotti, Pietro and Pettinicchio, Angela,
Do high partner workloads impair audit quality for public clients? Evidence from public and private clients
(January 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4973303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4973303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
C P Agoglia , R C Hatfield , T A Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
925
RANK
409,562
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies