Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going-Concern Cam Disclosures: An Intermediate-Level Warning for Financial Distress

21 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Vanessa Vandamas

Florida International University (FIU)

Mark Myring

Florida International University (FIU)

Abstract

We examine going-concern (GC) critical audit matter (CAM) disclosures by auditors of non-accelerated filers in the USA. GC issues continue to be of significant interest to the public, given the well-documented failures of SEC registrants without prior GC-related warnings. We examine whether auditors use GC-CAMs as intermediate-level warning signals of going-concern issues. Our analyses of 106 GC-CAM disclosures find that only 60 (57 percent) of GC-CAM disclosures concurrently had GC-modified audit opinions (GCMOs). In univariate analyses, we find predictable differences between registrants with and without a GCMO; however, in regression analysis, we find significant differences between clients with and without a GCMO only for (a) client size and (b) the absence of revenues. Interestingly, GC-CAMs are not “sticky”—unlike GCMOs that are “sticky” in successive years. The removal of GC-CAM in the following year is associated with improved financial condition, suggesting that auditors may be using GC-CAM as an intermediate-level signal of going-concern issues.

Keywords: critical audit matter, going-concern, audit reports

Suggested Citation:

Vandamas, Vanessa and Myring, Mark, Going-Concern Cam Disclosures: An Intermediate-Level Warning for Financial Distress. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4982480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4982480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
668,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies