Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Knowledge Gaps of Crowdfunding Firms: A Survey of Crowdfunding Firms and Auditors

24 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2024

John Aland

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 18, 2022

Abstract

Prior research shows that the accounting and financial reporting quality of startups and early-stage firms is lower than that of public firms and firms later in their life-cycle. A growing source of financing for these startup and early-stage firms is equity crowdfunding. This paper provides evidence, through survey responses and semistructured interviews with a subset of respondents, about "knowledge gaps" and accounting "weak spots" that exist for firms raising capital through Regulation Crowdfunding. "Knowledge gaps" are accounting areas where startup companies think they understand the proper accounting for these items, while auditors say these firms struggle with these concepts. Accounting "weak spots" are accounting areas where startup firms and auditors agree there is difficulty in accounting for certain items, and where more guidance or clearer standards may be beneficial. Better understanding specific accounting "knowledge gaps" and "weak spots" can help inform these startup firms, their auditors, their investors, and their regulators when evaluating and considering the reported financial condition of these companies.

Keywords: Equity Crowdfunding, Regulation Crowdfunding, Accounting, Auditing

JEL Classification: G24, M13, M41, M42, G23

Suggested Citation:

Aland, John, Exploring the Knowledge Gaps of Crowdfunding Firms: A Survey of Crowdfunding Firms and Auditors (November 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4984295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4984295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Eliot Abrams
Securities crowdfunding: More than family, friends, and fools?
Friends, and Fools Posted: 2017
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
John Aland
Equity Crowdfunding and Offering Page Disclosure
Available at SSRN 3816720 Posted: 2021
Kristian D Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The accounting review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies