Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Requirements and Compliance Quality for Financial Reporting of Business Combinations in China

Working paper presented at the 2024 Annual Academic Conference of the Enterprise Accounting Standards Section of the Accounting Society of China, Beijing, 26 October 2024 

53 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2024 Last revised: 7 Nov 2024

Huifang Li

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: September 19, 2024

Abstract

Our study analyses corporate compliance with the China Accounting Standard (CAS) No. 20, 'Business Combinations'. Using a sample of 448 deals from Chinese listed companies initiating business combinations in 2007, 2014, and 2021, we investigate to which extent these companies have complied with CAS No.20 specific requirements and whether the following main factors influence their compliance quality: temporal evolution; transaction type and related accounting method (under common control-BCUCC, or not under common control-BCNUCC); auditor type; transaction location (domestic or foreign); and government involvement. To assess the compliance level, a Business Combination Disclosure Index (BCCI) was developed. Annual financial reports were collected and analysed for each company, coding transaction information from these primary sources. Univariate and multivariate empirical analyses were used to examine the five main factors. Our results show that temporal evolution, transaction types and auditor types were factors that influenced the level of compliance, contrary to deal location and government involvement. In particular, compliance levels improved from 2007 to 2021, while BCUCC deals showed better compliance levels than BCNUCC ones. The auditor types appear to have some influence on the compliance quality, but only in specific cases. Among other factors beyond our hypotheses, sectors, acquirer size, the relative size of the target over the acquirer, and consideration paid structure appeared to affect the compliance level. Our results provide some useful evidence to inform preparers and policy-makers concerned with compliance quality in financial reporting of business combinations.

Keywords: Chinese Accounting Standards, Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A), Business Combination, Mandatory Disclosure, Compliance

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Huifang and Biondi, Yuri, Disclosure Requirements and Compliance Quality for Financial Reporting of Business Combinations in China (September 19, 2024). Working paper presented at the 2024 Annual Academic Conference of the Enterprise Accounting Standards Section of the Accounting Society of China, Beijing, 26 October 2024 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4996179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4996179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
B Al-Shammari , P Brown , A Tarca
An Investigation of Compliance with International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 447 Posted: 2008
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Do the Big 4 and the Second-tier firms provide audits of similar quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2010
H Borgi , Y Mnif
Compliance level with IFRS disclosure requirements across 12 African countries: Do enforcement mechanisms matter
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 81 Posted: 2021
S Cascino , J Gassen
Comparability Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
753,736
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies