Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between Restatements and Key Audit Matters in the Context of Business Combinations

39 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Charalampos Brilakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

This research samples UK LSE (Main and AIM market segments) non-financial companies between 2016-2021 and examines if the information the auditor conveys via Key Audit Matters (KAM) provides early signals of future financial restatements. The predictive value of Key Audit Matters (KAM) is assessed in relation to subsequent restatements related to corporate structure events: mergers and acquisitions, consolidation, investment in non-consolidated subsidiaries and disposals, which we collectively refer to as "Business Combination" (or BC) activity. Such events are complex in nature and entail significant management judgement, thus representing an area where KAMs are expected to be raised. By using a binary classification approach based solely on KAM topic, the research concludes that a subsequent BC-restatement is more probable when a BC-related KAM preceded. The actual KAM content however infrequently hints for the subsequent restatement reasoning. We add to the previous literature by performing quantitative assessment of the relationship between KAM and restatement, followed by content analysis. Our research includes the LSE-AIM market segment that is underrepresented in analysts' coverage.

Keywords: Restatements, Key Audit Matters, Business Combinations, London Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Brilakis, Charalampos and Demirakos, Efthimios, The Relationship Between Restatements and Key Audit Matters in the Context of Business Combinations (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4998920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4998920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
I Andreicovici , A Jeny , D Lui
Do Firms Respond to Auditors Posted: 2020
Audit Analytics
Reporting error corrections in the UK, EU, US and Canada
EAA-ARC Blog Posted: 2020
J Barton , B Burnett , K Gunny , B P Miller
The Importance of Separating the Probability of Committing and Detecting Misstatements in the Restatement Setting
Management Science , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 32 - 53 Posted: 2022
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of Expanded Audit Reports: Evidence from the Justifications of Assessments in France , volume 38 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
584,242
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies