Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors Use a Compliance or Fair Presentation Approach to Evaluate Financial Statements? Evidence from Audited Discretionary Accruals

53 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2024

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: July 26, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the degree to which accruals reflect the economic substance of firm activities in audited financial statements. Using the concepts of materiality and risk of professional standards, we apply the most successful discretionary accrual models in the accounting research literature to estimate the degree of material misstatement in the reported accruals. We find that audited accruals have very high risks of material misstatements indicating that a compliance-oriented approach to audits of accounting estimates is being followed in the vast majority of public company audit engagements. This is true even after controlling for reasonable audit risk in each engagement. Our findings show that estimation uncertainty in the form of accounting risk in audited accounting estimates can be very high indicating elevated levels of misreporting risk, and a need for more standards guidance if audited financial statements are to better reflect economic substance and fair presentation in financial reporting. This paper enhances our understanding of the reliability problems associated with accounting estimates that should concern auditors, management, regulators, and standard setters.

Keywords: accounting estimates, accounting risk, materiality, compliance, fair presentation

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally and Ye, Minlei, Do Auditors Use a Compliance or Fair Presentation Approach to Evaluate Financial Statements? Evidence from Audited Discretionary Accruals (July 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5005059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5005059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
S Asay , P Hribar , C Quinto
Paper presented at University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management on Dec
The Precision of Point Forecasts Posted: 2023-11-06
R Barker , S Penman
Moving the Conceptual Framework Forward: Accounting for Uncertainty , volume 37 , p. 322 - 346 Posted: 2020
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
RANK
805,836
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies