Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure of Negative Events and Auditor Behavior: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

46 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Xiaoli Guo

University of North Dakota

Andrew Fluharty

University of St. Thomas - Opus College of Business

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Using the staggered adoption of data breach disclosure (DBD) laws, this paper studies the impact of mandatory disclosure of adverse corporate events on audit fees. DBD laws increase the frequency of disclosed cyber incidents which adversely impacts firms' financial condition and operations; this could result in a higher risk of misstatement and reputation loss for auditors. Consistent with this hypothesis, we find that auditors charge higher fees after the adoption of DBD laws. We also find that the increase in audit fees is more pronounced in firms with higher cyber risk and greater auditor reputational concerns. Furthermore, governance mechanisms and resources that are available to auditors can mitigate the rise in audit fees. Robustness tests suggest that the effect is not driven by realized cyber incidents and other contemporaneous events. Overall, our study provides evidence that the mandated disclosure regulation significantly affects audit pricing.

Keywords: Information Economics, Data Breach Disclosure, Regulation, Cyber Law, Audit Fees K24, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Xiaoli and Fluharty, Andrew, Mandatory Disclosure of Negative Events and Auditor Behavior: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5007941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5007941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Aicpa References
AICPA Unveils cybersecurity risk management reporting framework Posted: 2017
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
M Ashraf , J Sunder
Can shareholders benefit from consumer protection disclosure mandates? Evidence from data breach disclosure laws
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
S C Asthana , R Kalelkar , K K Raman
Does client cyber-breach have reputational consequences for the local audit office? Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies