Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Pandemic and Audit Quality

54 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2024

Bingxuan Lin

University of Rhode Island

Liansheng Wu

Southern University of Science and Technology

Yimin Zhang

China National Petroleum Corporation

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: February 20, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine the influence of the COVID-19 pandemic on audit quality among firms listed in China, focusing on the role of empathy between auditors and their clients. Our analysis reveals that the pandemic's adverse effects on audit quality-evidenced by downward adjustments to earnings and an increased likelihood of auditors issuing modified audit opinions (MAOs)-are predominantly observed when there is a high degree of empathy, particularly when both the audit firm and the client are located within areas heavily affected by the outbreak. Further investigation indicates that the deterioration in audit quality is primarily associated with auditors who have less experience, occupy junior positions, are employed by more philanthropically inclined audit firms, or work for firms outside the Big 10. Our research offers compelling evidence of the impact of empathy on audit quality and carries profound implications for various audit stakeholders, including management, auditors, shareholders, and regulatory bodies.

Keywords: COVID-19 Pandemic, Audit Quality, Modified Audit Opinion, Audit Adjustment, China

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Bingxuan and Wu, Liansheng and Zhang, Yimin and Zhou, Jian, COVID-19 Pandemic and Audit Quality (February 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5009279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5009279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
K Albitar , A M Gerged , H Kikhia , K Hussainey
Auditing in times of social distancing: The effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 178 Posted: 2020
A Ali , L.-S Hwang , M A Trombley
Arbitrage risk and the book-to-market anomaly
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 373 Posted: 2003
P L Bagley
Negative affect: A consequence of multiple accountabilities in auditing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 157 Posted: 2010
S Baliyan , J M Cimadevilla , S Vidania , M M Pulopulos , C Sandi , C Venero
Differential susceptibility to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on working memory, empathy, and perceived stress: The role of cortisol and resilience
Brain Sciences , volume 11 , issue 3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
649
RANK
741,983
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies