Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping the Academic Literature of Audit Quality Against the IAASB Framework: A Keyword-Frequency Analysis

27 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Ahmed Abdelwahed

Faculty of Commerce, Cairo University; Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology

Ahmad Abu-Musa

Tanta University

Hosam Moubarak

Alexandria University

Hebatallah Badawy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 01, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: The objective of this study is to understand the knowledge structure of the audit quality research discipline and to compare perspectives of audit academics and practitioners of audit quality. The academic perspective is represented by audit quality literature from 1981 to 2021, whereas the 2014 IAASB framework represents the practitioner's perspective. Design/methodology/approach: The keyword frequency analysis was used to analyze 2,110 articles published in 332 journals indexed in the Scopus database. Findings: Audit academics and practitioners perceive audit quality differently. Academic literature overemphasized some themes and overlooked others. A great academic attention was directed to input and contextual factors. Some contextual factors received attention in prior literature, while others were overlooked. Implications: The results of this study inform academics of areas that represent potential future research opportunities. Evidence-based findings can help auditors, standard-setters, and regulators review and improve auditing standards and best practices to meet the needs of financial reporting stakeholders. Originality/value: The study contributes to audit quality literature, as it shows points of commonalities and divergence between audit academics and practitioners. It extends Simnett et al.'s (2016) study through providing a more global perspective and covering research of various methods from a wide range of peer-reviewed journals.

Keywords: audit quality, bibliometric analysis, IAASB framework, keyword frequency analysis

Suggested Citation:

Abdelwahed, Ahmed and Abu-Musa, Ahmad and Moubarak, Hosam and Badawy, Hebatallah, Mapping the Academic Literature of Audit Quality Against the IAASB Framework: A Keyword-Frequency Analysis (November 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5017816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5017816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
Acca
IAASB: A framework for audit quality Posted: 2013-05
R I T A Anugerah , R I Z Q A Anita , R N Sari , M R Abdillah , T M Iskandar
The analysis of reduced audit quality behavior: The intervening role of turnover intention
International Journal of Economics and Management , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 353 Posted: 2016
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
B Ballou , J H Grenier , A Reffett
Stakeholder perceptions of data and analytics based auditing techniques
Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 47 - 68 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
RANK
631,616
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies