Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forex Trading is a Big Scam for High-Risk Market People Who Can Burn Your Money in a Fraction of a Second

8 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

Today we hear many names about different types of financial markets. These modern markets have great potential for revenue. For example, a large amount of money is traded every day in the US stock market. This volume is sometimes around $ 100 million. This figure has a great impact on the economies of different countries. In this article, you will be fully acquainted with the Forex market and its related concepts. Despite the warnings of security and judicial officials about the activities of pyramid schemes, as well as companies that operate under the name of foreign investment (Forex), and more and more people are deceived and lose their livelihoods, still We see that people are naively wasting their lives, which they realize only after the arrest and loss of capital. Due to the importance of the stock market and the Forex market, the present article introduces these two markets and compares them. The 24-hour market, the high level of leverage credit, the possibility of trading in both the downtrend and the uptrend market, low costs and the possibility of low-price changes are important factors in the separation of the two markets. As well as financial markets are affected. A demo account in Forex is such that you select a certain amount of money and then practice with it virtually to learn how this market works and you do not need to have money to invest in Forex first. But financial literacy is still essential, otherwise it will inevitably enter the forefront of Forex scams, which will benefit brokers.

Keywords: Trading, High-Risk, Market, Fraction, Forex

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, Forex Trading is a Big Scam for High-Risk Market People Who Can Burn Your Money in a Fraction of a Second (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
W H S Aubery , London , Simpkin , Marshall , Kent & Hamilton , Co , D K Pp ; Backus , A W Gregory , &c
Stock Exchange Investment: the Theory, Methods, Practice and Result , p. 44 - 112 Posted: 1896
Telmer
Accounting for Forward Rates in Markets for Foreign Currency
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1887 - 1908 Posted: 1993
G Bekaert
The Time-Variation of Risk and Return in Foreign Exchange Markets: a General Equilibrium Perspective
Review of Financial Studies , volume 9 , p. 427 - 440 Posted: 1996
Thomas C Chiang
The Forward Rate as a Predictor of the Future Spot Rate-a Stochastic Coefficient Approach
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 20 , p. 212 - 232 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
597,018
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies