Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Problem of Realizing for Right to Health in Context of Social Justice Theories

Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

This article includes theoretical discussions related exercising of the right to health in context of social justice conceptions. The main research issue is to present new perspectives by scrutinizing past experiences in order to how to realize right to health fairly in terms of economic and social. In this regard, Egalitarian, Liberal, Utilitarian and Communitarian Justice Understandings was synthesized with the right to health. The results of the synthesis was interpreted in context of delivering and financing of health services. Health system based on public is demanded because healthcare services are accepted as social right. However, there are some problems for fulfillment of responsibilities concerning healthcare services. The top of these problems is that cost of healthcare services for governments have been rising and social justice perception have been bruised. Developed new approach of this article is to reveal the opinion that the right to health and the right for benefiting from healthcare services may be different concepts.

Keywords: The Right to Health, Egalitarian Justice, Liberal Justice, Utilitarian Justice, Communitarian Justice

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, The Problem of Realizing for Right to Health in Context of Social Justice Theories (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022573
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies