Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigate the Supportive Role of Management and the Independence of the Internal Auditor in the Effectiveness of Internal Audit 

Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Mehmet Hanifi Ayboga

Marmara University

Date Written: April 05, 2021

Abstract

In today's world, increasing the quantity and quality of independent auditing is generally possible by relying more on internal controls. Auditors' assessment of the internal controls of business units is how effective audit programs are set up. Accordingly, in this study, two intra-organizational factors including management support for internal audit and internal audit independence were examined and thus the effect of the above two factors (as an independent variable) on the effectiveness of internal audit (dependent variable) Was tested. The statistical sample is estimated at 200 managers and auditors according to Krejcie and Morgan table. According to the statistical population, the whole population has been selected as a sample and 170 usable questionnaires were obtained from which we examined the results of the study. The results of the present study show that the variables of internal audit independence, management support for internal audit have a significant relationship with the effectiveness of internal audit.

Keywords: Internal Auditor, Internal Audit Independence, Management Support

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad and Ayboga, Mehmet Hanifi, Investigate the Supportive Role of Management and the Independence of the Internal Auditor in the Effectiveness of Internal Audit  (April 05, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022567
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies