Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Britain's Exit from the European Union and Its Impact on the Stock Market and the Comparison of the Value of the Euro against the Pound

8 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

Since the formation of the European Union, various theories have sought to examine why, how, and the results of the convergence process. Neofunctionalists emphasize the role of internal consensus and intergovernmental negotiation in the expansion of intergovernmentalism, constructivists emphasize identity issues and interactions between objects, institutionalists emphasize the formation of transnational institutions, and neo-realists emphasize the balance of power in the international system. With the crisis in Europe, thinkers have once again turned their attention to the region to analyze the trend. The question that arises here is: Can any of these theories analyze the current (critical situation) of the European Union? In other words, which of them can be a good theoretical basis for analyzing the critical situation of the European Union? The answer to this question is that "most theories can analyze the growing conditions of convergence, but among them, intergovernmental theory can better analyze the current situation. Therefore, the aim is to examine the possibility of using Convergence After mentioning the introduction of the formation of the European Union and its critical conditions, theories of convergence and its impact on the stock market are examined by emphasizing the current situation in Europe and comparing the rise or fall of the EU currency against the British pound. Finally, a conclusion is presented. Keywords Brexit, impact on the stock market, impact on the value of the euro against the pound, Britain's exit from the European Union

Keywords: Brexit, impact on the stock market, impact on the value of the euro against the pound, Britain's exit from the European Union

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, Britain's Exit from the European Union and Its Impact on the Stock Market and the Comparison of the Value of the Euro against the Pound (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Tomas Christiansen
The Social Construction of Europe Posted: 2001
M Cini
European Union Politics Posted: 2003
Gross domestic product (GDP)
Gdp
%20is
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies