Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Covid 19 Crisis and The Future of Bitcoin in E-Commerce

Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Mehmet Hanifi Ayboga

Marmara University

Date Written: January 02, 2022

Abstract

The spread of the coronavirus has devalued stock indices, lowered commodity prices such as oil, and chaos in financial markets around the world. Fiat currencies have plummeted as central banks injected too much money into affected economies, and an unprecedented recession has hit the world that central banks and financial institutions are unable to cope with. Bitcoin is a virtual currency whose production is the result of a time-consuming computational activity called exploration. This international currency is not managed by any bank and can be used to buy goods from anywhere in the world, it can also be Traded like stocks or coins. The main purpose of this article is to address the pandemic crisis-COVID 19 and Bitcoin as a virtual currency from the perspective of a user, in addition to goals such as familiarity with Bitcoin for strangers, attracting talented people, and showcasing the capabilities of Bitcoin. It is also covered in the virtual world and e-commerce. This article takes a fresh look at the most known digital currency and, by advancing its goals from the legal and economic perspective of Bitcoin, with a view to the e-commerce COVID 19 pandemic crisis in 2019. This money is a new currency with lower transaction costs than traditional currency markets and operates in a decentralized manner without the presence of intermediaries and regulatory bodies such as the government, banks, and financial institutions, unlike traditional currencies issued by governments.

Keywords: Pandemic crisis - COVID 19, The future of Bitcoin, Decentralized money, Digital money and its role in e-commerce

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad and Ayboga, Mehmet Hanifi, The Covid 19 Crisis and The Future of Bitcoin in E-Commerce (January 02, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022549
 Not Available for Download
13 References
S Apak , F Ganji
Investigation of the effect of data mining method on detection of financial frauds in electronic banking
th International Congress on Economy Management and Market Research Posted: 2020
M H Ayboğa , F Ganji
Detectıng fraud ın ınsurance companıes and solutıons to fıght ıt usıng coverage data ın the Covıd 19 pandemıc
PalArch's Journal of Archaeology of Egypt/Egyptology , volume 18 , issue 15 , p. 392 - 407 Posted: 2021
M H Ayboğa , S Apak , F Ganji
E-Commerce and examination of the accounting systems of such institutions on the internet
th International Social Humanities and Educational Sciences Congress Posted: 2021
E T Cheah , J Fry
Speculative bubbles in Bitcoin markets? An empirical investigation into the fundamental value of Bitcoin , volume 130 , p. 32 - 36 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies