Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Recommendation On Accounting Human Capital Assets

8 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: September 01, 2021

Abstract

Accounting has been classifying and recording all data related to transactions creating changes on assets and total liabilities and equity of business. Accounting has also roles of assisting managers for making decisions and of serving real, comparable, clear and in time information to outside and inside. Besides, one of most important assets of businesses is labor, in other words, human capital. However, it is not quite possible to able to see human capital asset in balance sheets. In this study, it was explained that human capital assets should be shown in balance sheets as cost factor and its expense process.

Keywords: Human Capital, Existence, Accounting Process, Concept of Periodicity, Cost Element and Expense

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, A Recommendation On Accounting Human Capital Assets (September 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Claudia Goldin
Posted: 2014
Adam Smith
An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations Posted: 1776
W Qin , J Xue , M Wei
Human Capital Structure and High-Quality Development: An Empirical Study
2020 7th International Conference on Behavioural and Social Computing (BESC) , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2020-11
M O Adelowotan
The Usefulness of Human Capital Disclosures: Perspectives of Human Resource Managers
African Journal of Business and Economic Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 331 - 360 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies