Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
INVESTIGATING THE IMPACT OF USING NATIONAL STANDARDS ON THE QUALITY OF AUDITING AND THE UNIFORMITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: June 07, 2021

Abstract

Investigating the factors affecting the quality of auditing is one of the topics of interest to researchers and the reason is that increasing the quality of auditing will lead to investor confidence in the accuracy of financial statements and reduce agency costs. In this study the effect of national accounting standards on the quality of the independent auditor´s opinion was investigated. the statistical population of the study included 50 technical and senior managers of the auditing organization. examining the hypotheses, it was found that the basis of national accounting standards by independent auditors to comment in the financial statements, reduce the clause in the audit report, the use of national accounting standards by auditors, leads to consistency and uniformity of audit reports. application of national accounting standards by auditors reduce audit time.

Keywords: Establishment of national accounting standards by independent auditors, reduction of condition clause in audit report, consistency and uniformity of audit reports, reduction of audit time

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, INVESTIGATING THE IMPACT OF USING NATIONAL STANDARDS ON THE QUALITY OF AUDITING AND THE UNIFORMITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (June 07, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Farrokh Barzideh , Saeed Ahmadizad
Auditors' Awareness of Accounting Standards Approved by the Auditing Organization
Accounting Studies , issue 7 Posted: 2006
Gholam Mahdavi , Karjoo Hossein , Nariman Rafeh
Study of the Impact of National Accounting Standards on the Quality of Independent Auditors' Opinions
Accounting Advances , issue 2 , p. 146 - 132 Posted: 2005
Piot Janin
Audit Quality and Earnings Management in France Posted: 2005
Mohammad Kashanipour , Maran Jori , Mehran , Mohammad Moshashei
Relationship between auditor tenure and discretionary accruals in listed companies
Tehran Stock Exchange , p. 126 - 113 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
205
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies