Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating influence of financial statements correspondence with national standards in auditors' performance and reliability of reports

8 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

Standards of auditing has been attended as one of the influential components on auditing quality and as the only factor which has been formalized by professional associations and authorities. In this study, the influence of accounting national standards on independent auditor's remark was considered. Statistical population of study was technical and top managers of audit organization that their number was 50. According to investigations and testing hypotheses, it was determined that the use of accounting national standards by auditors, shows the extent of their professional judgment. Matching financial statements with accounting national standards, causes coordination of auditors in the way of countering difficulty cases. Matching financial statements of companies with accounting national standards, causes increase of reliability of auditing report.

Keywords: underlying accounting national standards by independent auditors, professional judgement extent; coordination of auditors in the way of their performance, increase of reliability of auditing report

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, Evaluating influence of financial statements correspondence with national standards in auditors' performance and reliability of reports (January 01, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Saqafi , E Ebrahimi
considering relation of formulating accounting standards with accounting information quality
Considerations of accounting and auditing , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2009
Z Poorzamani , H Marslouei , A Hadiyan
Considering relation of accounting standards and accounting information transparency
First conference of accounting and management Posted: 2012
Y Hassas-E Yeganeh , Gh Taqi Natayej Malekshah
Relation of internal controls report with users' decisionmaking
Quarterly Journal of Accounting Studies , issue 14 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2006
J Boivin , K Michael , F Mishkin , M Benjamin , Michael Friedman , Woodford
How Has the Monetary Transmission Mechanism Evolved Over Time?
Handbook of Monetary Economics , p. 369 - 422 Posted: 2010
Load more
2 Citations
Muharrem Samur
The Moderating Role of Corporate Governance in Financial Risk and Cost of Goods Sold
Journal of Organizational Behavior Research , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 114 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Aylin Erdoğdu , Faruk Dayi , Ferah Yildiz , Ahmet Yanik , Farshad Ganji
Combining Fuzzy Logic and Genetic Algorithms to Optimize Cost, Time and Quality in Modern Agriculture
Sustainability , volume 17 , issue 7 , p. 2829 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
234
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies