Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influencing Factors and Effective Barriers to the Implementation of Environmental Management Accounting in Small and Medium Industries

7 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

In the present era, due to some environmental constraints, especially in world trade and the narrowing of competition, inevitably some forprofit companies, on the one hand, have to bear the costs to overcome these constraints and gain more revenue or gain commercial popularity; and on the other hand, to positively evaluate the specific performance of environmental protection, they are forced to reduce these costs. The purpose of this study is to investigate the factors and obstacles affecting the implementation of environmental management accounting. Independent research variables include imposed pressures, imitative pressures, normative pressures, attitudinal barriers, financial barriers, and information barriers. The statistical population of the study is small and medium industries (small industries with 1 to 9 people & medium industries with 10 to 100 people). The research method was applied, and the data collection method was field study. The results showed that imitation pressures and normative pressures are effective in the implementation of environmental management accounting, and the pressures imposed on the implementation of environmental management accounting are not effective. In addition, attitudinal barriers, financial barriers, and information barriers have been effective in the non-implementation of environmental management accounting. The research method was applied, and the data collection method was field study. The results indicated that imitation pressures and normative pressures are effective in the implementation of environmental management accounting, and the pressures imposed on the implementation of environmental management accounting are not effective. Moreover, attitudinal barriers, financial barriers, and information barriers have been effective in the non-implementation of environmental management accounting.

Keywords: Imposing pressures, Imitation pressures, Normative pressures, Attitudinal barriers, Financial barriers, Information barriers

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, The Influencing Factors and Effective Barriers to the Implementation of Environmental Management Accounting in Small and Medium Industries (January 01, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
M Dastgir , A Sakhnour
Factors affecting the application of management accounting methods from the perspective of financial managers of manufacturing companies in Khuzestan province
Journal of the Faculty of Administrative Sciences and Economics, University of Isfahan , volume 20 , issue 3 Posted: 2007
F Ganji , Karimi Saheb , Z Divani
Factors and Barriers Affecting the Implementation of Environmental Management Accounting Posted: 2017
Y Hasas Yeganeh , Z Dianti Deilami , A Nowruzbegi
Investigating the status of management accounting in companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange
Journal of Management Accounting , issue 8 Posted: 2011
V Ismaili
Needs assessment and review of the current situation of reporting and informing the accounting information system to the managers of the food industry and providing corrective suggestions in this field Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies