Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating The Effective Factors In The Internal Audit Of Organizations

10 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

The present study examined the factors affecting the effectiveness of internal audit. The effect of two intra-organizational factors of internal audit competence, the interaction of internal and external auditors as an independent variable on the effectiveness of internal audit (dependent variable) was tested. The statistical sample is estimated at 200 managers and auditors according to Krejcie and Morgan table. According to the statistical population, the whole population has been selected as a sample and 170 usable questionnaires were obtained from which we examined the results of the research. The results of the present study show that the variables of audit competence within the interaction of internal and external auditors have a significant relationship with the effectiveness of internal audit.

Keywords: Internal Auditor, Internal Auditor Competence, Internal and External Auditor Intervention

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, Investigating The Effective Factors In The Internal Audit Of Organizations (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Yahya Sensitive , Taqi Malekshah Results , Gholam Hossein
& QUOT; Relationship between Internal Control Reporting and User Decision Making & QUOT
Quarterly Journal of Accounting Studies , issue 14 , p. 44 - 45 Posted: 2006
A Alzeban , D Gwilliam
Factors affecting the internal audit effectiveness: A survey of the Saudi public sector
J. Int. Account. Audit.Taxat , volume 23 , p. 74 - 86 Posted: 2014
C Doz , D Giannone , L Reichlin
A Two-Step Estimator for Large Approximate Dynamic Factor Models based on Kalman Filtering
Discussion Paper , volume 6043 Posted: 2007-01
M Forni , M Hallin , M Lippi , L Reichlin
The Generalized Dynamic Factor Model: Identification and Estimation
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 4 , issue 82 , p. 540 - 554 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies