Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Fraud in Insurance Companies and Solutions to Fight it using Coverage Data in the Covid 19 Pandemic

Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Farshad Ganji

Istanbul Arel University

Date Written: June 04, 2021

Abstract

Under normal circumstances, insurance customers may not often think about their insurance services, but the Covid-19 pandemic caused widespread uncertainty among insurance customers. Insured people are now looking to find things like insurance coverage, freeing up money and taking risks. Meanwhile, insurance companies try to adapt their performance to the existing conditions and address the needs of their customers. Fraud is one of the challenges that insurance companies have been facing for a long time and it constitutes a significant part of the losses incurred by them. In recent years, forensic techniques have been instrumental in identifying and preventing fraud in the insurance industry. Due to the high direct or indirect costs of fraud, banks and financial and monetary institutions are increasingly seeking to expedite and expedite action in identifying the activities of fraudsters and fraudsters. The use of these methods can be useful in identifying fraudulent losses in the insurance industry. The growth of fraud patterns as well as fraud costs can constantly threaten any company, so a strong fraud detection management system should have different methods of detecting fraud and what It is important to have experienced experts and specialists in this field who should be directly supported by the supervisory bodies and the board of directors because they are the source of many violations from within the organizations.

Keywords: Fraud, insurance fraud, data mining, application of data mining in fraud detection, supplementary insurance, Classification

Suggested Citation:

Ganji, Farshad, Detecting Fraud in Insurance Companies and Solutions to Fight it using Coverage Data in the Covid 19 Pandemic (June 04, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022565
 Not Available for Download
18 References
S J Lee , K Siau
Industrial Management & Data Systems , p. 41 - 46 Posted: 2001
S Kudya , R Hoptroff
Data Mining and Business Intelligence: a Guide to Productivity Posted: 2001
A C Yeo , K A Smith , R J Willis , M Brooks
Modeling the effect of premium changes on motor insurance customer retention rates using neural networks
International Conference , p. 28 - 30 Posted: 2001
R S Del , V López , J M Benítez , F Herrera
On the use of MapReduce for imbalanced big data using random forest
Inf. Sci , volume 285 , p. 112 - 137 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies