Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Client Experience Influences Auditor Learning: The Case of Complex and High-Performance Clients

52 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024

Robert Knechel

University of Florida

Liwei Zhu

CUNEF Universidad

Date Written: May 01, 2022

Abstract

This study examines how an auditor develops expertise from the audit of large and successful clients and then utilizes that expertise in their audit of other smaller clients in the same industry.  Focusing on Swedish private clients audited by Big 4 auditors, we find that auditors with the largest, most successful clients in an industry are associated with reduced under-investment by their smaller clients in the same industry. This effect is not solely attributable to the size of a large client because an auditor is likely to learn more when a client is also successful. The effect is the strongest at the partner level but also occurs at the office and firm level. The effect is also stronger when the auditor has longer tenure with, or provides consulting services to, the large and successful client. We also observe that auditors with the largest, most successful clients earn fee premium in excess of industry specialists. Taken together, these results support the idea that an auditor learns from their experiences on their engagements and can then use that knowledge to make their services more effective and valuable in smaller engagements in the same industry where a client may lack internal investment expertise. Overall, this study contributes to our understanding of how an auditor develops expertise and utilizes that expertise to benefit other clients.

Keywords: auditor learning, industry specialization, investment efficiency, real effects

JEL Classification: C80, G30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Robert and Zhu, Liwei, How Client Experience Influences Auditor Learning: The Case of Complex and High-Performance Clients (May 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5029292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5029292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Affärsvärlden
Affärsvärlden rankar Sveriges storsta konsulter Posted: 2011
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
P J Beck , M G Wu
Learning by doing and audit quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
677,757
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies