Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Effects of Component Auditor Disclosures on Audit Quality and Audit Fees

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 10 Jul 2025

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Mary S. Stone

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Date Written: May 10, 2021

Abstract

PCAOB Rule 3211 requires lead auditors to disclose the identity and extent of the use of component auditors in Form AP. While the PCAOB and investor groups anticipated that the requirement would increase audit quality, auditors and preparers anticipated little or no change in audit quality. We test for changes in audit quality and audit fees by performing difference-in-differences analyses using companies for which Form AP first required public disclosure of component auditors as a treatment group. Our control groups are companies for which component auditor identities and usage could be inferred from the PCAOB Form 2 filings available prior to Form AP, UK multinational companies whose auditors are not required to disclose their use of component auditors, and U.S. companies whose lead auditors did not use component auditors. Using multiple proxies for audit quality, we find an increase in audit quality for the treatment group following the mandated disclosure of component auditors but fail to find evidence of increases in audit fees. Our results will be useful to the PCAOB in assessing whether Form AP component auditor disclosures achieve the regulatory goals of the PCAOB.

Keywords: component auditor, Disclosure, Form AP, Form 2, audit quality, audit fees.

Suggested Citation:

Mao, Juan and Stone, Mary S. and Krishnan, Gopal and Zhang, Jing, An Examination of the Effects of Component Auditor Disclosures on Audit Quality and Audit Fees (May 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5030834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5030834
 Not Available for Download
63 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , Pradeep
Is audit partner identification useful? Evidence from the KPMG "steal the exam" scandal
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , V Castellani , P Richardson
Do investors care who led the audit in the US? Evidence from the announcements of accounting restatements Posted: 2024-09-19
R Barber , J Burke , K Gunny
Are audit disclosures informative about future foreign earnings? Posted: 2024-09-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies