Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grammatical Errors, Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Engagement Risk

44 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2024

Blake Canziani

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Jacquelyn Gillette

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Date Written: November 23, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether grammatical errors (GEs) in annual financial reports (10-Ks) provide a timely signal of the reliability of firms' financial information. Consistent with the notion that GEs capture the time, effort, and resources devoted to financial filings, we find that GEs are more common when firms have less time to prepare their financial reports and, importantly, that they are positively associated with the likelihood of a future restatement and the discovery of an internal control weakness. We also document a positive association between GEs and auditor effort. Collectively, our findings suggest that GEs provide a timely signal of financial reporting quality and audit engagement risk.

Keywords: M40, M41, M42 grammatical errors, restatements, financial disclosure, audit engagement risk

Suggested Citation:

Canziani, Blake and Gillette, Jacquelyn and Pundrich, Gabriel, Grammatical Errors, Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Engagement Risk (November 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5031654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5031654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
A Appelman , M Schmierbach
Make no mistake? Exploring cognitive and perceptual effects of grammatical errors in news articles
Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 930 - 947 Posted: 2018
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
T Berg , V Burg , A Gombović , M Puri
On the rise of fintechs: Credit scoring using digital footprints
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 7 , p. 2845 - 2897 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
451,566
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies