Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future Auditing: Machine Learning's Impact On Audit Capacity Stress - Young Auditors' Perceptions Using UTAUT

Edelweiss Applied Science and Technology, volume 8, issue 6, 2024 [10.55214/25768484.v8i6.2967]

20 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Armanto Witjaksono

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Eugenia Carisa

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Evelyn Nadia Tedjosugondo

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

Advancing technologies have potential to revolutionize the future of auditing. This study investigates the impact of machine learning adoption on audit capacity stress among Indonesian external auditors. A survey approach was used to collect data from 100 auditors working in public accounting firms. The Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) model was employed to assess factors influencing auditors' perceptions of machine learning usage. The result that comprises of young auditors to be the most respondents show performance expectancy, effort expectancy, and social influence are insignificant towards audit capacity stress. However, facilitating conditions were found to have a significant impact on audit capacity stress, suggesting that infrastructure and resource availability are crucial for young auditors' acceptance of machine learning and its audit capacity stress-reducing effects. Thus, Indonesian auditor requires additional facilitating support to alleviate audit capacity stress. These findings contribute to the understanding of technology adoption and audit capacity stress in the evolving future audit profession.

Keywords: Audit capacity stress, Auditor perception, Future auditing, Machine learning, UTAUT model

Suggested Citation:

Witjaksono, Armanto and Carisa, Eugenia and Nadia Tedjosugondo, Evelyn, Future Auditing: Machine Learning's Impact On Audit Capacity Stress - Young Auditors' Perceptions Using UTAUT (November 11, 2024). Edelweiss Applied Science and Technology, volume 8, issue 6, 2024 [10.55214/25768484.v8i6.2967], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5031183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
588,428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies