Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AI and Web3: A New Era for Accounting and Auditing

23 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024

David Krause

Marquette University

Date Written: November 26, 2024

Abstract

The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) and Web3 technologies is reshaping the landscape of accounting and auditing. As businesses increasingly adopt these technologies, accounting firms must adapt to meet the evolving needs of their clients. This paper explores the potential benefits and challenges associated with the integration of AI and Web3 into accounting and auditing practices. We delve into specific applications such as fraud detection, automated data entry, and real-time financial analysis. Additionally, we discuss the ethical implications, regulatory considerations, and the necessary skillsets to navigate this evolving technological landscape. By understanding the opportunities and challenges, accounting firms can effectively leverage AI and Web3 to provide innovative and value-added services to their clients.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Web3, Blockchain, Fraud Detection, Auditing, Regulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C83, M42, C80, C81

Suggested Citation:

Krause, David, AI and Web3: A New Era for Accounting and Auditing (November 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5034613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Accounting for Web3 business models
Accountancy Age Posted: 2024-09-30
B O Adelakun , T G Majekodunmi , O S Akintoye
AI and ethical accounting: Navigating challenges and opportunities
International Journal of Advanced Economics , volume 6 , issue 6 , p. 224 - 241 Posted: 2024
A O Ajayi-Nifise , T Falaiye , O Olubusola , A I Daraojimba , N Z Mhlongo
Blockchain in US accounting: a review: assessing its transformative potential for enhancing transparency and integrity , volume 6 , p. 159 - 182 Posted: 2024
G Almufadda , N A Almezeini
Artificial intelligence applications in the auditing profession: A literature review
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 29 - 42 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
RANK
399,022
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies