Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do auditors really provide adequate attention to the statement of cash flows? Empirical evidence from the U.S.

36 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024

Davide Arrighi

Catholic University of Milan

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Angela Pettinicchio

Catholic University of Milan

Date Written: November 27, 2024

Abstract

The statement of cash flows offers a crucial picture of a company's financial health. Recently, the SEC's Office of Chief Accountant has reminded auditors of their responsibility to apply the same level of care while auditing the statement of cash flows as for other parts of a company's financial statement, somehow implying that auditors, so far, have neglected the statement of cash flows compared to other documents of a firm's annual report. Using a sample of U.S. listed companies from 2005 to 2021, we aim to provide empirical evidence on this assertion. Specifically, we first analyze the association between cash flow restatements (CFRs) and audit fees, intended as a proxy of auditor-perceived risks. While we confirm the positive association previously found in the literature between audit fees and accounting restatements, we do not find any significant association between audit fees and CFRs. This evidence suggests that while auditors price the risk related to noncash flow restatements (NCFRs), they do not seem to react to CFRs. However, our findings also show that CFRs are associated in the three years following their issuance with an increased likelihood of non-clean audit opinions, material weaknesses within a company's internal control systems, and issuance of NCFRs, suggesting that CFRs are informative. In conclusion, our study supports the recent call from the SEC's Office of Chief Accountant to auditors and contributes to the literature on accounting restatements.

Keywords: statement of cash flows, accounting restatements, auditing, SEC, restatements, cash flows restatements

Suggested Citation:

Arrighi, Davide and Cameran, Mara and Pettinicchio, Angela, Do auditors really provide adequate attention to the statement of cash flows? Empirical evidence from the U.S. (November 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5036480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5036480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Corporate Governance Consequences of Accounting Scandals: Evidence from Top Management, CFO and Auditor Turnover
Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2016
E Alfonso , A Christie , D Hollie , S Yu
Determinants and economic consequences of cash flow restatements
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , p. 82 - 97 Posted: 2018
Financial Restatements. A twenty-one-year review Posted: 2022
A Barua , C Lennox , A Ragunandan
Are audit fees discounted in initial year audit engagements?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
RANK
713,739
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies