Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Intangible Assets in the Presence of Related Critical Audit Matters

42 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025

Ly Pham

Aalto University School of Business

Date Written: December 02, 2024

Abstract

The requirement for auditors to disclose Critical Audit Matters (CAMs) is one of the most significant changes to the audit report by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in decades. This study examines the relevance of CAMs in the context of intangible assets by assessing how investors value this item when a related CAM is present. Using panel data from U.S. firms (2019-2022), this study finds that the value relevance of intangible assets decreases when auditors include related CAMs in the audit report. This effect is driven by goodwill CAMs, especially when they are disclosed for the first time or in unexpected circumstances. Particularly, investors discount goodwill to a greater extent when a firm is the sole recipient of goodwill CAMs within the industry, and less if the firm already increased footnote disclosures about goodwill or recorded goodwill impairments in preceding years. This study contributes to the literature on the value relevance of intangible assets and expanded audit reports, and offers insights for standard setters, firms, and auditors.

Keywords: CAM, value relevance, audit reports, intangible assets, goodwill

Suggested Citation:

Pham, Ly, The Value Relevance of Intangible Assets in the Presence of Related Critical Audit Matters (December 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5040861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5040861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies