Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Literature on Joint Audit and Audit Quality, Audit, Costs, and Market Concentration

37 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Dr Prem Lal Joshi

Independent

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

The study aims to do a comprehensive evaluation of prior research on joint audits and their effects on audit quality, audit costs, and market concentration that has been conducted over the last ten years. A search of key databases, including ProQuest, Google Scholars, SCOPUS, Direct Science, and others, yielded 37 research studies during a ten-year period, from 2014 to 2024. Notably, 21 (56.8%) of the studies were conducted in developing nations, with the bulk originating from Arab nations, while 16 (43.2%) were conducted in developed nations.The study categorizes the trend of joint audits' effect on audit quality into three schools of thoughts. Since sixteen studies (43.3%) found that joint audits improved audit quality and twelve studies (32.4%) found the opposite. The first school of thought indicates that there is now a tendency that the quality of audits is improved by joint audits. The remaining nine studies (24.3%) showed either no insignificant or a mixed effects. Literature reviews unequivocally show that joint audits have a mixed or negligible influence on audit quality under joint audit regimes. Furthermore, findings show how joint audits affect audit fees and costs, demonstrating that the requirements for joint audits raise costs and may result in different outcomes. The amount of empirical research is lacking on joint audits and audit market concentration, and there seems to be conflicting evidence about collaborative audits' potential advantages in reducing audit market concentration and the potential negative effects of audit market concentration on audit quality. These show that there are still gaps in the literature, as there is inadequate support for joint audits positively affecting audit quality and a lack of empirical research on specific geographic areas in emerging economies. In addition, the study offers guidance and implications for further research on this obvious subject.

Keywords: Joint Audit, Audit Quality, Financial Reporting Quality, Earnings Management, Audit Fees and Costs, Audit Market Concentration, Big4 versus nonBig4, Mandatory versus Voluntary Audit

Suggested Citation:

Joshi, Dr Prem Lal, A Review of the Literature on Joint Audit and Audit Quality, Audit, Costs, and Market Concentration (December 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5048520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5048520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Graph-1: Effects of Joint Audit on Audit Quality Posted: 2014
Future research could also examine how Big4 maintains audit quality and market focus while streamlining auditing processes. Is it possible to employ audit data analytics for collaborative auditing in order to impact audit quality and reduce audit costs? Additionally, from the perspective of the stakeholders, how a joint audit affects determining whether financial statements are fraudulent
O O Reference Abiodun
Joint audit and financial reporting quality of listed Nigerian Deposit Money Banks (2008-2028)
Journal Competitiveness Studies , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2021
R Abu Raya
Audit consortium impact on audit quality assessment: evidence from Egypt
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,025
RANK
405,369
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies