Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing professional scepticism in the accounting classroom: A case study approach

38 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Prerana Agrawal

University of Western Australia

Jacqueline Birt

The University of Western Australia

Mark Holub

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Warrick Van Zyl

The University of Western Australia

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

Professional scepticism is an important attribute that professional accountants need to possess, resulting in its incorporation into existing international education standards. We examine whether a sequence of case studies specifically targeting elements of scepticism can improve accounting students' disposition to act sceptically (trait scepticism). Using Hurtt's (2010) multi-dimensional scale, we our findings indicate that certain elements of trait scepticism (questioning mind, search for knowledge, self-determination, and self-confidence) can be improved at the pre-professional stage. The incremental effect, at individual level, is more pronounced in younger and international students. We also observe that the incremental effect is significant for undergraduate but not postgraduate students. Our findings have important implications for educators, professional bodies and the accounting profession.

Keywords: Professional scepticism, case study, accounting education, auditing, Hurtt scale

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Prerana and Birt, Jacqueline and Holub, Mark and Van Zyl, Warrick, Developing professional scepticism in the accounting classroom: A case study approach (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5051746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5051746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S K Agarwalla , N Desai , A Tripathy
The impact of self-deception and professional skepticism on perceptions of ethicality
Advances in Accounting , volume 37 , p. 85 - 93 Posted: 2017
P Agrawal , J Birt , M Holub , W Van Zyl
Professional scepticism and the accounting classroom
Accounting Education , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 233 Posted: 2021
Professional scepticism in an audit of a financial report
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (Australian Government Posted: 2012-08
S E Bonner , P L Walker
The effects of instruction and experience on the acquisition of auditing knowledge
Accounting Review , p. 157 - 178 Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Prerana Agrawal , Jacqueline Birt , Mark Holub , Warrick Van Zyl
Developing professional scepticism in the accounting classroom: A case study approach
38 Pages · Posted: 6 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
601,250
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies