Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Audit Fees and Corruption:

An International Analysis of Audit Rates and Audit Hours

46 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025 Last revised: 24 May 2025

Marco Ghitti

University of Padua - Department of Economics and Management

Noga Shimon

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Date Written: May 21, 2025

Abstract

We argue that country risk affects audit risk. Hence, audit price in a country, represented by average hourly audit fee, should increase with country-specific audit risk, to compensate auditors’ engagements in riskier countries. We identify a small sample of companies listed on the Israel Stock Exchange that use auditors in different countries. As these companies must disclose total audit fees and hours of engagement, we compile a novel dataset that includes both fees and hours in 25 different countries for 10 years and compute the average hourly audit fee per country. As the primary measure of country risk, we use the Corruption Perception Index published annually by Transparency International for each country. We expect and find a positive association between perceived corruption and average hourly audit fee normalized by the country’s per-capita GDP. We use several alternative measures of country risk with similar results. We also find no association between audit hours (a measure of audit effort) and corruption or other country-specific risk measures. Our results suggest that auditors in more corrupt countries are compensated for country-specific audit risk by charging a higher hourly audit rate for their audit services, but we do not find an increase in audit hours.

Keywords: International Audit, Corruption, Audit pricing, Audit hourly fee, Audit risk, Country risk

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ghitti, Marco and Shimon, Noga and Amir, Eli,

Audit Fees and Corruption:

An International Analysis of Audit Rates and Audit Hours

(May 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5053185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5053185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Abudy , E Amir , E Shust
The Audit Risk Model and Family Firms: An Analysis of Internal and External Audit Hours
Accounting and Business Research , volume 55 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2025
Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit
Statement of Auditing Standards No. 47 Posted: 1997
E Amir , S Danziger , S Levi
Business corruption and economic prosperity
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 546 - 562 Posted: 2019
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
Abnormal fees and timely loss recognition-A longterm perspective
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies