Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncovering Turkish Audit Firms' Transparency Report Textual Attributes Through Computer Based Approaches and Linking Them to Audit Quality

38 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2025

Sibel Dinç Aydemir

Gebze Technical University

Yusuf Sinan Akgul

Gebze Technical University

Barış Özcan

Gebze Technical University

Mine H. Aksu

Sabanci University

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

This paper assesses the textual attributes of transparency reports (TRs) prepared by audit firms (AFs) in Türkiye between 2013-2020. To achieve this goal, we utilize a range of computer-based techniques and expertise, including natural language processing, named entity recognition, business text processing, web scraping, data mining, and bot building. The findings reveal that TRs exhibit boilerplate tendencies, lacking full transparency. They are characterized as medium-to-hard documents with a generally positive tone and diverse EoBP at the firm level. Additionally, a customized Turkish readability scale derived from Fog index is introduced. This paper also investigates AF-based determinants of TR textual attributes. Regression model results indicate the impact of some AF characteristics (e.g., license duration, number of partners, the Big 4, female ratio, non-audit services) on most textual attributes. Finally, we explore the role of textual features, alongside AF and audit partner (AP) attributes, in influencing audit quality. To address potential endogeneity concerns, the study adopts an instrumental variables probit model. The analysis reveals that the readability of TRs by Fog index significantly influences audit quality. Factors such as AF tenure, AP busyness, CF's sales ratio, and loss contribute to audit quality, aligning with prior research.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Transparency Reports, Readability, Natural Language Processing, Business Text Processing, Named Entity Recognition, Document Similarity C26, C88, G18, M42

Funder Statement

This research project, titled “ Do Audit Firms Disclose Enough: A Computer-Based Content Analysis of Turkish Audit Firms’ Transparency Reports?” has received support from The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Türkiye (TUBITAK) through the 1001 funding program (Grant Number TUBITAK 121K325) during the period from November 1, 2021, to February 1, 2023.

Suggested Citation:

Dinç Aydemir, Sibel and Akgul, Yusuf Sinan and Özcan, Barış and Aksu, Mine H., Uncovering Turkish Audit Firms' Transparency Report Textual Attributes Through Computer Based Approaches and Linking Them to Audit Quality (September 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
On statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/ 660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC
EC of The European Parliament and of The Council , p. 88 - 107 Posted: 2006
R Alcalde , C A Armino , S Garcia
Analysis of the economic sustainability of the supply chain sector by applying the Altman Z-score predictor
Sustainability , volume 14 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2022
S Al-Manaseer , S D Al-Oshaibat
Validity of Altman Z-score model to predict financial failure: Evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 181 - 189 Posted: 2018
A Al-Thuneibat , Ibrahim Al Tawfiq , R Issa , R A Baker
Do audit tenure and firm size contribute to audit quality? Empirical evidence from Jordan
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 317 - 334 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
444
RANK
889,370
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Computing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies