Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Place of Auditing in Organizational Performance of Public Sector: Evidence from some selected Local Government in Zamfara State, Nigeria

Journal of Accounting and Financial Management. Volume 5. No. 2. Pp. 1-8

8 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025

Bamidele Vincent Olawale

Federal College of Education (Technical); Ekiti State University

Date Written: February 05, 2019

Abstract

This research work examines the place of auditing in organizational performance of public sectors in Nigeria, using some selected Local Government in Zamfara State, Nigeria as case study. Its specific objective among others is to determine if there is any significant relationship between internal audit department and the administration of the Local Governments and to also establish if there is significant relationship between effective internal auditing of accounts of public sectors and proper reporting of stewardship by accounting officers. Data were collected via a well-structured and tested questionnaire administered on 55 respondents in the selected Local Government councils in Zamfara State. The data collected were analyzed using Chi-square via SPSS statistical tools. The findings of the study revealed among others that there exist significant relationship between internal audit department and the administration of the Local Government. Also, there is significant relationship between effective internal auditing of accounts of public sectors and proper reporting of stewardship by accounting officers. Hence, the system of auditing public sector accounts in the State does not seem to enhance effective accountability. This may be attributed to the political interference experienced and non-independence of internal audit personnel and this prevents them doing their work as required by the constitution, for efficient performance and effective accountability in public sector it is recommended that political interference should be minimized and there should be clear information dissemination within the various departments in all local government on the control measures taken, so that each department would comply with the respective control systems.

Keywords: Auditing, Organisational performance, Public sector

Suggested Citation:

Ola, Vincent, The Place of Auditing in Organizational Performance of Public Sector: Evidence from some selected Local Government in Zamfara State, Nigeria (February 05, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Financial Management. Volume 5. No. 2. Pp. 1-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5055966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5055966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
280
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies