Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Auditor Workload Affect Employee Spending and Turnover? Evidence from Micro-Level Transaction Data

51 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Jungbae Kim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: December 12, 2024

Abstract

Long hours and excessive workload have long been a concern in public accounting. We investigate the effect of audit office busyness on individual auditor consumption patterns and turnover using unique micro-level data on individual Big 4 firm employees’ bank and credit card transactions. We find that individual auditors reduce their overall spending when their audit office is busier, consistent with intense workload impacting individual auditors’ personal lives. This reduction is particularly salient in certain categories, including discretionary and health related expenditures, and is stronger for lower-paid employees, i.e., junior auditors, and in smaller audit offices. We also find that individual auditors in offices with greater workload imbalance are more likely to leave their firms and exit the audit profession altogether. Moreover, the impact of workload imbalance on turnover is stronger for auditors who experience greater reductions in spending during busy periods, suggesting that the personal strain caused by increased workload contributes to auditor turnover. Overall, our results suggest that intense workload negatively impacts auditors’ personal lives and contributes to a talent exodus from the audit profession.

Keywords: Auditor, Busyness, Workload, Consumption, Turnover

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Kim, Jungbae and Lourie, Ben and Zhu, Chenqi, How Does Auditor Workload Affect Employee Spending and Turnover? Evidence from Micro-Level Transaction Data (December 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5055665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5055665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor supply drought: The case of accountant talent shortage and audit outcomes Posted: 2024
J G Altonji , C H Paxson
Labor supply preferences, hours constraints, and hourswage trade-offs
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 254 - 276 Posted: 1988
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
RANK
248,130
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies