Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors' Reactions to Cybersecurity Incidents: The Joint Effects of Disclosure Tone, Critical Audit Matters, and IT Knowledge

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

52 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Nithara Godewatta

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Ashna Prasad

Monash University

Xinning Xiao

Monash University - Department of Accounting; Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 11, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether investors' reactions to management's tone and to auditor's commentary in the disclosure of a cybersecurity incident are contingent on investors' level of knowledge about information technology (IT). In Experiment 1, we predict and find that investors with a high level of IT knowledge are more likely to invest in a company when management's cybersecurity risk disclosure is written in a neutral tone and a critical audit matter (CAM) about the cybersecurity incident is present. In contrast, investors with a low level of IT knowledge are more likely to invest when the cybersecurity risk disclosure is written in a positive tone and a CAM about the incident is absent. We also find that for investors with a high level of IT knowledge, a positive tone of disclosure results in lower perceived management credibility and thus in lower willingness to invest when the CAM relating to the cybersecurity incident is present. In Experiment 2, we find that these results are unchanged regardless of the number of CAMs disclosed. Our findings are relevant to management, to auditors, and to the regulators that have expressed concerns about the quality of cybersecurity risk disclosures for informing investors' decision-making.

Keywords: Cybersecurity, Critical audit matter, Risk disclosure, Tone

Ethics Approval

All experiments conducted in this study were approved by the Monash Human Ethics Research Committee.

JEL Classification: G40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Godewatta, Nithara and Phang, Soon-Yeow and Prasad, Ashna and Xiao, Xinning and Xiao, Xinning, Investors' Reactions to Cybersecurity Incidents: The Joint Effects of Disclosure Tone, Critical Audit Matters, and IT Knowledge (December 11, 2024). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5062233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5062233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
N S Alan , A K Karagozoglu , T Zhou
Firm-level cybersecurity risk and idiosyncratic volatility
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 47 , issue 9 , p. 110 - 140 Posted: 2021
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
H Andreas
The role of investors' objective financial knowledge on the assessment of risk disclosures in mutual fund advertisements
Journal of Financial Services Marketing , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 22 Posted: 2015
Audit Analytics
Energy Co of Parana Posted: 2020-12-31
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
720
RANK
496,121
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies