Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Effect of Auditor Range Disclosures and Management Redirections on Investors’ Judgments

45 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Yanjia Yang

University of Bern - Institute for Accounting

Feng Yeo

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Abstract

Auditors in a key audit matter (KAM) setting have disclosed additional range information as part of their KAM disclosures, indicating the relative aggressiveness of management's accounting choices. At the same time, managers have responded to these KAM disclosures by providing additional disclosures in the form of a management redirection. We conduct an experiment that examines the effect of these additional auditor range and management disclosures in a KAM setting on investment judgments. We predict and find that a management redirection redirects investor attention from the KAM to the auditor’s consideration of the matter, and this has a positive effect on investment judgments. Consistent with theory, the positive effect of a management redirection is greater when an auditor range disclosure indicating management aggressiveness is present versus absent in the KAM disclosure, suggesting a possible unintended effect of auditor range disclosure. Our results suggest that these two KAM disclosure features have incremental effects on investors’ judgments, and show that auditors can use KAMs to signal management aggressiveness to investors only when management redirections are absent.

Keywords: Key audit matters, auditor range disclosures, management redirections, opportunistic disclosure strategy

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Hun-Tong and Yang, Yanjia and Yeo, Feng, The Joint Effect of Auditor Range Disclosures and Management Redirections on Investors’ Judgments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5064521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5064521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
N V Aegon
Annual general meeting of shareholders
The Hague, Aegonplein 50. Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), 2018. Key audit matters: Unlocking the secrets of the audit Posted: 2015-05-20
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , W A Hillison
Voluntary causal disclosures: Tendencies and capital market reaction
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 371 - 389 Posted: 2000
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
Why do managers explain their earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2004
Q Cheng , K Lo
Insider trading and voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 815 - 848 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
277
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies