Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on the Future of Auditing and Assurance Services in Nigeria 

24 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2025

Kamaluddeen Ibrahim

University of Abuja

Godspower Orevaoghene Jahswill

University of Abuja

Date Written: December 15, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on the future of auditing and assurance services in Nigeria. Highlighting audit quality, efficiency and effectiveness, Simple Random sampling technique was adopted for this study, A 5-point likert scale questionnaire was administered to a sample of 385 auditors to measure their perceptions on AI impacts on audit evidence analysis, risk assessment, judgments. 102 responses were received and the study utilized Structural equation modeling examined relationships between AI Technologies proxied by Expert systems, neural networks and decision-making intelligence and the Future of Auditing and assurance services (audit quality). Findings reveal a significant positive effect of expert systems on audit quality, underscoring their automation and analytical capabilities. However, neural networks and decisio making intelligence did not demonstrate a direct significant impact, warranting further research. Decision-making intelligence partially mediates AI technology effects, highlighting the continued importance of human judgement. The study concludes that while AI integration leads to higher audit quality, particularly through expert systems, maximal benefits necessitate human-AI collaboration emphasizing augmented intelligence. It recommends firms actively invest in expert systems and analytical tools while pursuing incremental assimilation of unproven technologies. Developing organizational readiness and human-AI partnership skills is as vital as installing advanced algorithms. Standard setters need to update guidance to harness AI benefits responsibly. Further research should explore neural networks impacts over time and across contexts. With prudent usage, AI promises immense opportunities to advance quality, insights and value from auditing.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Auditing, Decision Making, Expert Systems, Neural Networks, Practitioners), Artificial intelligence, Auditing, |Decision Making, Expert System, Neural Network, Practitioners

Suggested Citation:

Ibrahim, Kamaluddeen and Jahswill, Godspower Orevaoghene, Effect of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on the Future of Auditing and Assurance Services in Nigeria  (December 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5085491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5085491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Process Automation in Auditing: A Review, Analysis, and Research Agenda
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2019
D Acemoglu
Technical change, inequality, and the labor market
Journal of economic literature , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 72 Posted: 2002
D Afroze , A Aulad
Perception of professional accountants about the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in auditing industry of Bangladesh
Journal of Social Economics Research , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 61 Posted: 2020
O J Agbola
Effect of ICT Infrastructure on Audit and Assurance Performance in Nigeria Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,132
RANK
159,412
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies