Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timing of Internal Control Weaknesses and Financial Reporting Quality

35 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025 Last revised: 13 Aug 2025

Yuzhou Chen

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Millie Hutton

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 12, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates how the quality of internal controls in both prior and current periods signals financial reporting quality. While prior research finds that firms with internal control weaknesses (ICWs) have higher misstatement risk, we show that the level of misstatement risk depends on the persistence of ICWs. Specifically, among firms with current-annual ICWs, those with repeat ICWs that spillover from the prior-annual to current-quarterly periods have lower misstatement risk than firms with first-time ICWs. In addition, we extend prior research by showing that for firms without current-annual ICWs, prior-period ICWs signal higher misstatement risk, particularly when prior-annual ICWs persist into the current-quarterly periods. Taken together, our findings suggest that the relation between ICWs and misstatements is more nuanced than previously suggested by the academic literature.

Keywords: internal control weaknesses, restatements, internal control weakness remediation, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yuzhou and Hutton, Millie and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas, The Timing of Internal Control Weaknesses and Financial Reporting Quality (August 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5086295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5086295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
K Bardos , J Golec , J Harding
Do investors see through mistakes in reported earnings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , p. 1917 - 1946 Posted: 2011
J C Bedard , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , K Westermann
Material weakness remediation and earnings quality: A detailed examination by type of control deficiency
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 78 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
RANK
472,944
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies