Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Licensing and Auditor Performance: Evidence from the CPA Exam Reform in China

Posted: 21 Jan 2025 Last revised: 22 Jan 2025

Zhenyang Shi

BI Norwegian Business School

Lin Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE); The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Zili Zhuang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: January 28, 2024

Abstract

We utilize the CPA licensing reform in China, which introduced two new subjects into the CPA exam, to evaluate how licensing affects auditor performance. Our findings indicate that auditors licensed under the new regime exhibit higher audit quality, with fewer irregularities and a reduced incidence of Type II errors. Moreover, these auditors demonstrate improved skills in handling client risks, aligning with the new CPA tests' focus on risk management. In additional analysis, we find these auditors experience faster career progression and are assigned important audit projects. Lastly, we observe no impact of the licensing change on auditor labor supply. Our study suggests that licensing requirements focused on occupation-specific human capital-rather than the general education mandates such as the 150-hour rule-can enhance auditor performance. It underscores the importance in understanding the specifics of licensing requirements when evaluating the economic impact of occupational licensing.

Keywords: License, CPA exam, individual auditor, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Zhenyang and Wang, Lin and Wang, Lin and Wu, Donghui and Zhuang, Zili, Licensing and Auditor Performance: Evidence from the CPA Exam Reform in China (January 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5091289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5091289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
593
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies