Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Overconfidence on Share Collapse Under The Moderating Role of Financial Statements Opacity: Evidence from Egypt

29 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Hossam Sharawi

Jeddah International College (JIC); Higher Institute of Computer- King Mariot

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

This study explores how CEO overconfidence affects the likelihood of share collapse in the context of an emerging market, Egypt, and how the financial statements' opacity moderates this effect. 82 firms listed on the Egyptian Exchange (EGX) between 2015 and 2022 were used as a sample, and regression analysis was used to test the effect of CEO overconfidence and financial statement opacity on two share collapse measures, DUVOL (negative skewness) and NCSKEW (volatility). The study finds that CEO overconfidence and financial statement opacity positively and significantly affect share collapse. This indicates that firms with overconfident CEOs and opaque financial reporting are more vulnerable to sudden and extreme drops in share prices. The researcher also finds that the interaction between CEO overconfidence and financial statement opacity amplifies the share collapse. The study contributes to behavioral finance and share collapse literature by examining an emerging market with different institutional characteristics from developed markets.

Keywords: Egypt, CEO overconfidence, financial statements opacity, share collapse, behavioral finance

Suggested Citation:

Sharawi, Hossam, The Impact of CEO Overconfidence on Share Collapse Under The Moderating Role of Financial Statements Opacity: Evidence from Egypt (November 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5092548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5092548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
PlumX Metrics
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies