Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Appointing Administratively Sanctioned Auditors and the Impact on Earnings Quality: Evidence from Japan †

39 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025

Satoshi Ogoe

Kyoto University - Graduate School of Business and Administration; Kyoto University - Graduate School of Management

uchida koichi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mikiharu Noma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 13, 2025

Abstract

An auditor's reputation is critical for ensuring the reliability of financial reports. However, some firms choose to appoint auditors with tarnished reputations given prior administrative sanctions. Using 2004-2022 data from listed firms in Japan, this study examines why such firms engage disreputable auditors and the impact on their earnings quality. Accordingly, companies receiving unfavorable audit opinions tend to appoint audit firms with administrative sanctions. These companies aim to obtain a lenient audit opinion through opinion shopping. Additionally, the earnings quality of companies that appoint such auditors declines. Hence, regulatory bodies, including relevant supervisory ministries, should closely monitor the actions of both the auditors and the companies involved.

Keywords: sanctioned auditor, earnings quality, opinion shopping, earnings management, and auditor's reputation JEL:M400

Funder Statement

This research has received research grants from the Japan Internal Audit Research Foundation (JIARF) and the Mizuho Securities Endowment at the Graduate School of Management, Kyoto University.

Suggested Citation:

Ogoe, Satoshi and koichi, uchida and Noma, Mikiharu, Appointing Administratively Sanctioned Auditors and the Impact on Earnings Quality: Evidence from Japan † (January 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5095217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5095217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C L Becker
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
P K Chaney , K L Philipich
Shredded reputation: The cost of audit failure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1245 Posted: 2002
P F Chen
The information role of audit opinions in debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 144 Posted: 2016
J H Choi , J B Kim , Y Zang
Do Abnormally High Audit Fees Impair Audit Quality? , volume 29 , p. 115 - 140 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
227
RANK
906,353
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies