Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary audit and future survival: Evidence from private micro firms in Sweden

40 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025

Marita Blomkvist

University of Gothenburg

Jan Peter Marton

University of Gothenburg

Emmeli Runesson

Gothenburg University - School of Business, Economics and Law

Niuosha Samani

University of Gothenburg

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of voluntary audits in micro firms and assesses the consequences of having an auditor, with a focus on the potential impact on future firm survival. Using a unique dataset of private micro firms in Sweden, the paper examines the drivers of audit demand, where costs may often outweigh benefits. Our findings suggest that larger micro firms with larger boards and greater reliance on debt financing—indicators of information asymmetry—are more likely to opt for audits. Furthermore, we find a negative and significant association between voluntary audit and future financial distress. We also compare firms subject to mandatory audits that are just above the voluntary threshold, with those just below it and do not have voluntary audits. The results provide further evidence of a lower incidence of financial distress in firms with an audit (whether mandatory or voluntary) and that results are not driven by endogeneity. In addition, we see indications of benefits from a strong auditor-client relationship. Collectively, these findings suggest that the financial expertise of auditors can be very valuable to private micro firms and increase their changes of long-term survival.

Keywords: Voluntary audit, Private firms, Micro firms, Firm survival

Declaration of Interest

None of the authors have any personal or financial relationship that influenced the study.

Funder Statement

Torsten Söderberg Foundation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Blomkvist, Marita and Marton, Jan Peter and Runesson, Emmeli and Samani, Niuosha, Voluntary audit and future survival: Evidence from private micro firms in Sweden (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5096975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5096975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private Companies Demand Auditing? A Case for Organizational Loss of Control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 121 Posted: 1993
K D Alle , T Lombardi Youn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 51 Posted: 2009
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
K O Appiah , C Amon
Board audit committee and corporate insolvency
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 298 - 316 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
512
RANK
753,736
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies