Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Online and Onsite Analyst Corporate Visits on Financial Misconduct: Evidence from China

46 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025

Shuyu Xue

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Quansheng Xuan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zhiyong Li

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Finance

Abstract

We examine the impact of online and onsite analyst corporate visits on financial misconduct using a unique data set of site visits to listed firms in China. We find that both online and onsite analyst visit have disciplinary effects on financial misconduct. The COVID-19 outbreak, and technology upgrades strengthen the effects of online visits on misconduct. We show that online visits lead to less misconduct by reducing information asymmetry and increasing analyst coverage and meeting quality. Online visits have stronger effects on firms located in remote regions or regions with worse climate conditions. Our results suggest that online working mode may also have the same effective output as the onsite working mode.

Keywords: Online vs Onsite working, Financial misconduct, Analyst corporate visit, Information Asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Shuyu and Xuan, Quansheng and Li, Zhiyong, The Effect of Online and Onsite Analyst Corporate Visits on Financial Misconduct: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5098208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5098208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
420
RANK
889,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies