Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating New Accounting Standards: Implications for Companies and Their Auditors

57 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Will Anding

University of Texas at San Antonio - Alvarez College of Business

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

Prior empirical research on new accounting standards focuses primarily on the perceptions and responses of investors, but recent studies document that auditors have significant involvement. To gain insights into the auditor’s role in the implementation of new accounting standards, I conduct semi-structured interviews with audit partners and financial statement preparers, who indicate that auditors play an important role in the implementation of new accounting standards. Interviewees note that adopting new standards presents challenges to the audit process and requires significant effort from preparers and auditors. Based on this interview evidence, I empirically investigate the financial reporting and audit consequences of implementing new standards. Using a novel AI-based approach to identify companies affected by new accounting standards, I find lower financial reporting quality when companies implement new standards. Additional empirical analyses indicate that the decrease in financial reporting quality coincides with increases in overall financial reporting complexity and is more pronounced when auditors have resource constraints. These findings shed light on the consequences and costs of new accounting standards and provide avenues for potential ways to mitigate these costs.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Anding, Will, Navigating New Accounting Standards: Implications for Companies and Their Auditors (January 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5104809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5104809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Aicpa References
AICPA Trends Report Posted: 2023
M Al-Matouq
ASC 842 and the investment, financing, and accounting decisions of EBITDA-focused firms Posted: 2022
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory SEC form 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
B A Badertscher , J J Burks
Accounting restatements and the timeliness of disclosures
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 609 - 629 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
481,321
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies