Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Distraction: An Unintended Consequence of M&As

51 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2025 Last revised: 8 Jul 2025

Ying Dou

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Emma Jincheng Zhang

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: December 05, 2017

Abstract

We find that Mergers and Acquisitions (hereafter M&As) can cause severe distractions for audit teams of the acquirers. Distracted audit teams cause delays in the filings of annual financial reports by their other clients and are 4% more likely to lose those clients. Clients of distracted auditors exhibit lower audit quality, evidenced by higher chances of financial misstatements and shareholder class action lawsuits due to misstatement or misrepresentation of material information. The market reacts negatively to auditor distractions, suggesting a significant shareholder wealth impact. Our paper identifies a channel for M&As to create an adverse impact on firms that merely share the same auditor with the acquirer firms.

Keywords: Audit office, Corporate restructuring, Distractions, Externality, Market reaction, Mergers and acquisitions

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Ying and Zhang, Emma Jincheng, Auditor Distraction: An Unintended Consequence of M&As (December 05, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5108938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5108938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 Posted: 2021
J J Burke , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , S Xiao
The disclosure and consequences of us critical audit matters
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 59 - 95 Posted: 2023
Y Cai , Y Kim , J C Park , H D White
Common auditors in m&a transactions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , p. 77 - 99 Posted: 2016
C Cassell , E Hunt , G Narayanamoorthy , S P Rowe
A hidden risk of auditor industry specialization: Evidence from the financial crisis
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , p. 891 - 926 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
RANK
649,413
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies