Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of Dismissals on Audit Partners’ Current Engagement Fees and Quality

50 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Date Written: December 16, 2024

Abstract

We examine the impact that an auditor dismissal has on the dismissed partners’ current client engagements. We argue that a recent dismissal negatively impacts the audit partner’s bargaining power, reducing the partner’s leverage during negotiations. Consistent with this notion, we document that dismissed partners charge lower audit fees and deliver lower-quality audits to their current clients. This relationship is concentrated for instances when the dismissing client is more economically important to the audit partner. These results are robust to entropy balancing, controls for partner and audit office traits, and a battery of sensitivity tests. Collectively, our study shows that dismissals have a spillover effect on an audit partner's portfolio of current clients and provides evidence consistent with audit fees and quality declining following a recent dismissal.

Keywords: Audit Partner, Dismissal, Audit Fees, Audit Quality, Auditor Independence

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Felix, Robert and Hoang, Kris, The Spillover Effect of Dismissals on Audit Partners’ Current Engagement Fees and Quality (December 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5110218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5110218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Bias-corrected matching estimators for average treatment effects
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2011
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
K Amin , J D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor Sentiment, Misstatements, and Auditor Behavior
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 517 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
799,009
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies