Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Inertia: Political Framing Following the Collapse of Carillion Plc

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

41 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2025

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Warren Maroun

University of the Witwatersrand

Dannielle Cerbone

University of the Witwatersrand

Wayne Van Zijl

University of the Witwatersrand

Abstract

The current study investigates the delayed and diluted audit reforms in the UK following the 2018 collapse of Carillion Plc using political blame attribution theory. While much research focuses on corporate failures and auditor negligence, this study highlights the political dynamics and framing contests that shape regulatory outcomes. Drawing on an interpretive analysis of commissions of inquiry and media articles, it examines how key political actors influenced public discourse by either diffusing or focusing blame and how these framing efforts affected policy decisions. The Government resisted proposed comprehensive reforms resulting in a policy impasse. Only limited reforms were enacted by the Financial Reporting Council, including persuading major audit firms to separate voluntarily their audit and non-audit operations. This underscores the challenges of achieving substantive audit reform in a politically contested environment, where blame-shifting and self-interest hinder regulatory progress. The study emphasizes the need for political actors and regulators to prioritize public accountability and market integrity over short-term political gains to avert future corporate failures. By shifting the focus from corporate mismanagement to the political framing contests that obstruct reform, this research offers a novel perspective on regulatory change in the UK. It provides fresh insights into the political barriers to effective oversight and the complexities of addressing systemic issues in the audit industry which will be relevant for a broader policy-making agenda.

Keywords: audit regulation, audit reform, audit failure, blame attribution, political framing, policy inertia

Suggested Citation:

Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Maroun, Warren and Cerbone, Dannielle and Van Zijl, Wayne, Accounting for Inertia: Political Framing Following the Collapse of Carillion Plc. Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
467,335
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies