Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Pricing of Restatement Severity in the Announcement Year: The Moderating Effects of Client Management Changes and Specialist Auditors

10.1108/MEDAR-08-2024-2625

Meditari Accountancy Research 33(1), 386-414

10.1108/PAR-06-2024-0118

Posted: 21 Feb 2025 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Kam Wah Lai

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: January 09, 2025

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines the audit pricing of restatement severity in the year of restatement announcement and how client management changes and auditor industry specialization moderate such pricing for a sample of restating firms. 

Design/methodology/approach – The sample consists of restating firms without auditor changes in the year of restatement announcement in the U.S. from 2005 to 2020.  Restatement severity is measured by nine measures which are further grouped into four categories.  An audit fee model is used to investigate whether audit fees are higher for more severe restatements.  Interaction terms involving the four categories of severity measures and a dummy variable for top management changes and for industry specialists are used to study the moderating effects.

Findings – This paper reports that audit fees are higher for more severe restatements (those that are more serious in nature, pervasive, unfavourable in financial impact and relevant to auditors) and even higher for clients with top management changes.  However, audit fees are not always higher for specialist auditors.  The results show that, for auditors who are specialists, audit fees are higher for restatements that are more serious in nature but lower for those that are more pervasive.

Originality/value – Prior studies examine audit pricing of restatement or restatement severity one or two years after restatement announcement.  In contrast, this paper studies audit pricing of restatement severity in the year of restatement announcement because clients and auditors are likely to renegotiate audit fees for restatement as early as possible and if the pricing issue is studied after the announcement year, noisy results may be obtained due to factors arising solely after that year. Also, in contrast to prior studies that do not investigate the moderating effects of clients’ and auditors’ characteristics on the pricing issue, this paper studies the effects of client management changes and auditor industry specialization on the issue and thus, recognizes the contextual nature of the issue.

Keywords: Audit fees, restatement severity, continuing engagements, management changes, specialist auditors

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Kam Wah, Audit Pricing of Restatement Severity in the Announcement Year: The Moderating Effects of Client Management Changes and Specialist Auditors (January 09, 2025). 10.1108/MEDAR-08-2024-2625, Meditari Accountancy Research 33(1), 386-414, 10.1108/PAR-06-2024-0118, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5117772
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies