Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Auditors Join the PCAOB as Inspectors: Implications for Audit Quality, Effort, and Inspection Outcomes

49 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025

Aydin Asheghi Oskooee

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

The recruitment strategy of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and its potential implications are an understudied topic. This study investigates this issue by examining the consequences of hiring auditors directly from audit firms as inspectors at the PCAOB. Our findings reveal that audit offices respond to the departure of their audit employees to the PCAOB by increasing audit effort and quality and applying a cautious stance in issuing going concern opinions, particularly for clients with higher inspection risk. These findings suggest that audit offices perceive a higher risk of potential knowledge transfer to the PCAOB and react when their employees join the PCAOB. We also observe a positive association between the number of audit recruits from a specific audit firm and the inspection findings for that firm. These findings could be driven by knowledge transfer, as inspectors informally share their inside knowledge about their former employers. Overall, our findings shed light on the direct and indirect effects of PCAOB’s hiring practices, offering new insights into human capital decisions within regulatory bodies and their association with audit outcomes.

Suggested Citation:

Asheghi Oskooee, Aydin and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, When Auditors Join the PCAOB as Inspectors: Implications for Audit Quality, Effort, and Inspection Outcomes (February 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5124557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5124557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Eric Krause
Labor Supply Drought: The Case of Accountant Talent Shortage and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2024
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Eric Krause
The Turnover, Retention, and Career Advancement of Female and Racial Minority Auditors: Evidence from Individual LinkedIn Data
Northeastern U. D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper , issue 4488379
Divya Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
Jay Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
434,536
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies