Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multi-Disciplinary Theory Repository and Assurance Ecosystem Framework to Facilitate Research

46 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Becca N. Baaske

The University of Tampa

Hilda E. Carrillo

University of Louisville

Lisa Milici Gaynor

University of South Florida

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

Theory helps explain and predict phenomena and can strengthen the validity of research studies. To encourage scholars to incorporate theory in audit and other assurance research, we present a conceptual framework of the assurance ecosystem and use the framework to organize over 200 theories from a multitude of disciplines, including but not limited to psychology, information systems, sociology, law, marketing, and economics. We then provide examples of theory-based research questions and illustrate how audit and assurance researchers can incorporate underutilized theories. Overall, our study should assist scholars with developing theory-based research questions and strengthen the cohesiveness and impact of audit and assurance research.

Keywords: audit, attest, assurance, theory, impact, assurance ecosystem, assurance environment, assurance process, assurance entities

Suggested Citation:

Baaske, Becca and Carrillo, Hilda and Gaynor, Lisa Milici and Schmidt, Jaime J., A Multi-Disciplinary Theory Repository and Assurance Ecosystem Framework to Facilitate Research (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Aicpa
Assurance services: A whitepaper for providers and users of business information Posted: 2013
C Agoglia , R Hatfield , J Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Z Alrawadieh , G Cetin , M Z Dincer , F I Dincer
The impact of emotional dissonance on quality of work life and life satisfaction of tour guides
The Service Industries Journal , volume 40 , issue 1-2 , p. 50 - 64 Posted: 2020
F Amyar , N N Hidayah , A Lowe , M Woods
Investigating the backstage of audit engagements: the paradox of team diversity
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 378 - 400 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
724,701
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies