Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Size-Based Exemption Thresholds from Accounting Regulation

63 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025

Millie Hutton

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 05, 2025

Abstract

Rather than apply a "one-size-fits-all" approach, financial regulators often exempt firms from regulation using size-based exemption thresholds (SBETs) to "reduce unnecessary burdens on smaller issuers" (SEC 2020b). Exemptions from regulations can be contentious, and academic literature provides limited perspective on the use of size in exempting firms from accounting regulation. In this study, we investigate how important accounting outcomes vary across different measures of firm size to provide context for the types of firms that would be affected by an expansion of or change to SBETs. We find that current SBETs for the audit of internal control tend to exempt firms with higher material misstatement rates and more informative revenue disclosures. However, SBETs also target firms that make up a trivial component of the total market, have poor operating performance, and have the least relevant earnings information. Together, our findings shed light on the nuanced nature of setting SBETs and provide valuable insight regarding the potential effects of exemption decisions.

Keywords: Standard-setting, Regulation, Exemption thresholds, Value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Hutton, Millie and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas, An Evaluation of Size-Based Exemption Thresholds from Accounting Regulation (February 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
to Appendix 1 for specific variable definitions and Appendix S2 for a more detailed discussion of our design. We present ERCs calculated from [1] graphically across size deciles in Figure 11
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
M Baker , J Wurgler
Market timing and capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
RANK
649,413
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies