Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reservoir or Crowding Out: The Impact of Corporate Financial Asset Allocation on Audit Fees

37 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

周 会

Yunnan Minzu University

Xi Gao

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Jingnan Ding

Yunnan Minzu University

Pengzhen Lou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of corporate financial asset allocation on audit fees, considering the reservoir effect and crowding-out effect associated with financial asset allocation. The study identifies an overall U-shaped relationship between corporate financial asset allocation and audit fees. When financial asset allocation is relatively low, the reservoir effect reduces audit fees. However, as financial asset allocation increases beyond a certain threshold, the crowding-out effect leads to higher audit fees. This conclusion remains robust after undergoing a series of robustness tests. The analysis of the transmission mechanism indicates that financial asset allocation influences audit fees through financing constraints. Furthermore, the heterogeneity analysis reveals that both ownership concentration and the nature of ownership positively moderate this relationship. The research findings clearly illustrate the "double-edged sword" effect and mechanism of financial asset allocation on audit fees, filling a gap in the existing literature regarding the nonlinear relationship between the two. This study provides new empirical evidence for audit pricing decisions and offers references for preventing and mitigating financial risks while promoting a shift from "virtual to real" in the economy from an audit perspective.

Keywords: Financial Asset Allocation, Reservoir Effect, Crowding-Out Effect, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

会, 周 and Gao, Xi and Ding, Jingnan and Lou, Pengzhen, Reservoir or Crowding Out: The Impact of Corporate Financial Asset Allocation on Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5134335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5134335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
K A Akkemik , Ş Özen
Macroeconomic and institutional determinants of financialisation of non-financial firms: Case study of Turkey
Socio-Economic Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 98 Posted: 2014
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
C Baud , C Durand
Financialization, globalization and the making of profits by leading retailers
Socio-economic review , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 266 Posted: 2012
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies