Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incumbent Audit Firm Alumni and Audit Outcomes

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 5135567

56 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2025 Last revised: 5 Jun 2025

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Evisa Bogdani

Northeastern University

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: June 05, 2025

Abstract

This study explores the association between executive and non-executive audit firm alumni and audit outcomes. While audit firms invest in alumni networks, the role of non-executive alumni remains underexplored. We test the tension in the hypothesis that alumni impair the audit process, potentially lowering audit quality and timeliness or enhancing auditor effectiveness through improved collaboration and expertise. We find support for the latter. Non-executive alumni are associated with a lower likelihood of misstatements and non-timely filings. Results are stronger for alumni with recent audit experience and in more challenging engagements. Non-executive alumni are also associated with a lower likelihood of auditor changes, higher audit and non-audit fees, and lower but more accurate going concern opinions. Consistent with prior research, we find little evidence that executive alumni influence these outcomes. The study broadens the understanding of audit alumni, suggesting that regulatory concerns about auditor independence may not apply to non-executive alumni.

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Bogdani, Evisa and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Incumbent Audit Firm Alumni and Audit Outcomes (June 05, 2025). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 5135567, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5135567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5135567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Diversity and Career Trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn Data on Race, Ethnicity, and Gender in Auditing
The Accounting Review Posted: 2025
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler , D F Larcker , S X Shi
Rank-and-file accounting employee compensation and financial reporting quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Load more
2 Citations
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Eric Krause
Diversity and Career Trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn Data on Race, Ethnicity, and Gender in Auditing
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 4 , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jerry Kwarbai , Emmanuel Oyeku
Non-audit Services and Audit Quality of Listed Industrial Goods Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria
Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 318 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
470,088
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies