Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB international inspections and US companies' exports

Accepted for publication at Contemporary Accounting Research

Posted: 13 Feb 2025 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Byongwook Yun

University of Missouri-Columbia

Date Written: February 12, 2025

Abstract

We examine the implications of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) international inspection program for US companies' exports. Our difference-indifferences analyses suggest that, following the release of the initial PCAOB inspection report in a country abroad, (1) US companies' exports to that country increased, and (2) US companies' major customers in that country reported higher accounts payable. Probing further, the effect on US exports is stronger for companies requiring more relationship-specific investments and for foreign countries with less transparency, weak auditor oversight, and low social trust. Our findings suggest that the release of the initial PCAOB inspection report in a country abroad serves as a public signal of oversight that increases trust in financial reporting integrity abroad, thereby facilitating growth in trade credit and an increase in US exports to companies in that country. Our findings suggest that stakeholders other than investors benefit from PCAOB international inspection reports and highlight a novel externality of the PCAOB international inspection regime benefiting US companies.

Keywords: PCAOB international inspections, US companies' exports, trade credit financing

Suggested Citation:

Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K. and Yun, Byongwook, PCAOB international inspections and US companies' exports (February 12, 2025). Accepted for publication at Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5135019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5135019
 Not Available for Download
68 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
P Antras , F Foley
Poultry in motion: A study of international trade finance practices
Journal of Political Economy , volume 123 , issue 4 , p. 853 - 900 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies