Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Effort and Misvaluation of Fair Value Estimates

52 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Eun Hye Jo

George Mason University Korea

Mindy (Hyo Jung) Kim

Saint Louis University - Department of Accounting

Jung Wha (Jenny) Lee

George Mason University Korea

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board frequently raises concerns about managerial biases in fair value measurements and auditors' inability to identify such biases. Indeed, a prevalent issue in auditing is that auditors often accept management's estimates in areas highly susceptible to management bias, which remains a significant regulatory concern. This study focuses on the measurement of Level 3 fair value assets, which involves significant assumptions and subjectivity, and examines misvaluation at various auditor ranks. Using audit hour data from South Korean firms, we confirm that increased effort from audit partners reduces the misvaluation of Level 3 fair value assets, whereas the effort exerted by lower-ranking auditors does not. The positive impact of audit partner effort on Level 3 fair value measurement is predominantly observed among partners with a lighter workload and substantial experience in auditing Level 3 fair value assets as well as in firms with long-standing relationships with their audit firms. These findings emphasize the critical role of oversight mechanisms in improving the quality of fair value measurement and highlight the crucial function of audit partners in examining complex audit areas.

Keywords: Audit partner, audit effort, fair value misvaluation

Suggested Citation:

Jo, Eun Hye and Kim, Hyo Jung and lee, Jung Wha (Jenny), Audit Partner Effort and Misvaluation of Fair Value Estimates (August 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5136330 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5136330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
A Arbel , P Strebel
Pay attention to neglected firms
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 42 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies