Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping the Literature Trends of Internal Auditing in the United States: A Systematic Review and Directions for Future Research

20 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2025

Saddam .A Hazaea

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Chun Cai

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Ebrahim Mohammed Al-Matari

Jouf University Sakaka City, Kingdome of Saudi Arabia

mohammed a. albakhrani

Al-Baydha University

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This review study examines the existing literature on internal audit (IA) in the United States to identify how internal audit functions (IAFs) have evolved in response to global shifts in business practices. Despite growing attention to IA, the literature remains fragmented, limiting a comprehensive understanding of how IA has evolved in response to business practices. Through a systematic review, this study analyzes 171 studies published between 1984 and 2023 retrieved from the Scopus database. This study investigates the characteristics of the literature and topics discussed, focusing on six key aspects: the practice of IA, the role of IA, the quality of IA, information technology (IT) auditing, risk management, and the relationship between IA and other parties. The results reveal a paradigm shift in the activities undertaken by internal auditors and a significant transition in the literature from discussing traditional topics to new topics related to environmental changes, the climate crisis, geopolitical challenges, and technological developments. The results also emphasize the need for more theory-based, empirical, and comparative studies on IA in different contexts and sectors. This paper identifies substantial gaps in IA literature and proposes directions for future research agendas, particularly concerning the influence of politics, culture, and the effects of COVID-19 on IA practices. These insights provide valuable guidance for IA practitioners, researchers, standard setters, and the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) in refining frameworks and understanding global IA trends.

Keywords: internal auditing, external auditors, audit committee, IT audit, corporate governance, fraud detection, risk management, United States

Suggested Citation:

Hazaea, Saddam .A and Cai, Chun and Al-Matari, Ebrahim Mohammed and a. albakhrani, mohammed and Chong, H Gin, Mapping the Literature Trends of Internal Auditing in the United States: A Systematic Review and Directions for Future Research (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5142263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
L J Abbott , D Barr-Pulliam , W L Buslepp , S Parker
The real effects of internal audit function quality: Evidence from investment strategies
Journal of Accounting Auditing & Finance , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 540 - 567 Posted: 2022
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2015
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
A Abdelrahim , H A N Al-Malkawi
Examining the moderating role of senior management support in internal audit effectiveness: Evidence from GCC region
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies