Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Auditor and Client Bargaining Power on Audit Pricing: A Two-Tier Stochastic Frontier Approach

41 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Sheng Qiang Liu

Chongqing Technology and Business University

Yu Zhang

Chongqing Technology and Business University

Shu Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lizhong Hao

University of Portland

Abstract

This study examines the impact of bargaining power on audit pricing in China's A-share market from 2015 to 2022. Using the two-tier stochastic frontier method, we find that, under information asymmetry, both auditors' and clients' bargaining power significantly affect audit pricing, beyond traditional factors like audit cost and risk premium. On average, client bargaining power decreases audit fees by 12.70%, while auditor bargaining power increases fees by 22.30%, resulting in a net 9.60% increase above the benchmark level. This study is thus able to quantify a potential price adjustment margin of up to 10% towards fair pricing. The effect varies across years, industries, regions, client ownership types, and auditor size. Since 2015, the pricing gap has narrowed, improving pricing fairness, though issues of monopolistic high fees and low-price competition persist. In summary, we suggest maintaining market mechanisms with moderate government intervention to address pricing deviations caused by information asymmetry.

Keywords: Bargaining Power, Audit pricing, Audit Fees, Information asymmetry, Two-Tier Stochastic Frontier Model

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Sheng Qiang and Zhang, Yu and Lin, Shu and Hao, Lizhong, The Impact of Auditor and Client Bargaining Power on Audit Pricing: A Two-Tier Stochastic Frontier Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5151690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5151690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
J Blouin , B M Grein , B R Rountree
An Analysis of Forced Auditor Change: The Case of Former Arthur Andersen Clients
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 621 - 650 Posted: 2007
J R Casterella , J R Francis , B L Lewis , P L Walker
Auditor Industry Specialization, Client Bargaining Power, and Audit Pricing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 140 Posted: 2004
L Chen , B Yi , L Zhang
Abnormal Audit Fees and Disclosure of Key Audit Matters
Audit Research , volume 2 , p. 60 - 70 Posted: 2022
Z Cheng , Z F Liu , I Z Wang , X Zhao
Reverse merger audit fee premium: Evidence from China
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 94 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies