Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Preventing Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Reputational Signals of Strategic Auditors

Contemporary Accounting Research, 0[10.1111/1911-3846.13012]

Posted: 12 Mar 2025 Last revised: 25 Feb 2025

Chez Sealy

University of Alabama

Chad Simon

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Financial reporting fraud continues to cost companies millions of dollars annually and is a major source of concern for regulators, stakeholders, and auditors. While academic research has largely focused on external auditors’ fraud detection efforts, we analyze whether auditors can successfully prevent occurrences of fraud using low-cost reputational signals of strategic audit approaches. Using a context-specific experiment, we find that fraud occurs less often when an audit partner signals the use of a first- or second-order strategic reasoning approach compared to a zero-order approach. Importantly, we also analyze how this fraud deterrence approach affects the level of effort used to commit fraud because more effortful frauds can be more difficult for auditors to detect. While signaling the use of non-zero level strategic approaches reduces fraud, we find that more effortful frauds occur only when the audit partner signals the use of a first-order strategic reasoning approach. Taken together, our results suggest that the signal of an auditor using second-order strategic reasoning has the potential to decrease the likelihood of fraud without increasing the effort used to commit fraud that does occur.

Keywords: Fraud, Auditing, Strategic Reasoning

JEL Classification: M42, D81

Suggested Citation:

Sealy, Chezham and Simon, Chad A.,

Preventing Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Reputational Signals of Strategic Auditors

(February 28, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, 0[10.1111/1911-3846.13012], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5154193
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies