Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Scrutiny of Loan Loss Estimates and Bank Lending: Evidence from PCAOB Inspections 

The Wharton School Research Paper

51 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2025

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Allison Nicoletti

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Sarah B. Stuber

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: January 27, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether auditor scrutiny over the allowance for loan losses (ALL) is associated with bank lending decisions. Using PCAOB inspection findings over the ALL to capture increases in auditor scrutiny, we find that auditor scrutiny is associated with a larger ALL for homogeneous loans (i.e., residential mortgages and consumer loans) but not for heterogeneous loans (i.e., commercial real estate; commercial and industrial loans). We next find that auditor scrutiny is associated with a shift in lending away from homogeneous loans, consistent with auditor scrutiny reducing the relative attractiveness of homogeneous loans. These findings suggest that policymakers and audit regulators can indirectly affect bank lending by exercising their authority in ways that affect auditor scrutiny.

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Nicoletti, Allison and Stuber, Sarah, Auditor Scrutiny of Loan Loss Estimates and Bank Lending: Evidence from PCAOB Inspections  (January 27, 2025). The Wharton School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5158706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5158706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
O Barron , J Pratt , J D Stice
Misstatement direction, litigation risk, and planned audit investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 449 - 462 Posted: 2001
A Beatty , B Ke , K Petroni
Earnings management to avoid earnings declines across publicly and privately held banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 570 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
709
RANK
328,705
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies