Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resistance to Adopting Emerging Technologies in External Auditing: An Exploration of Auditors’ Perceptions

45 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2025

Fotoh Elad

Karlstad University Business School, Student

Tatenda Mugwira

University of Agder - University of Agder, School of Busines and Law, Students

Abstract

Despite the growing use of emerging technologies by audit clients and recent calls from auditors to adopt emerging technologies in auditing, the audit profession has been slow to adopt emerging technologies. Drawing on survey data from 219 highly experienced audit partners and managers, this study adopted CFA/SEM to examine the factors affecting auditors’ resistance and slow adoption of emerging technologies in audits. Our findings reveal that switching cost and satisfaction with the current audit software drive resistance to change. Meanwhile, perceived value and positive social influence reduces auditors’ resistance to change. Furthermore, perceived value, positive social influence, and organizational support positively affect the switch to emerging technologies, while satisfaction with the current software negatively affects the adoption of emerging technologies. Preliminary exploratory findings suggest that frequent use of technologies is associated with reduced resistance to change and increased switching to emerging technologies. This study contributes to the auditing literature by presenting a comprehensive perspective of the factors that account for auditors’ continuous resistance to emerging technologies and potential catalyst that enhances the adoption of emerging technologies. These findings should be beneficial to audit regulators, practitioners, and academics.

Keywords: Emerging technologies, resistance to change, Status Quo Bias Theory, auditors' perceptions

Suggested Citation:

Elad, Fotoh and Mugwira, Tatenda, Resistance to Adopting Emerging Technologies in External Auditing: An Exploration of Auditors’ Perceptions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
H Agnew
Auditing: Pitch battle
Financial Times Posted: 2016-05-09
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
M Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of Big Data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
M G Alles , G L Gray
Incorporating big data in audits: identifying inhibitors and a research agenda to address those inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
708,404
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Change Management & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies