Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Audit Matters and their Specific Audit Procedures - What Audit Reports Tell us about Audit Quality at the Account and Entity Level

54 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2025

Annalena Kaakschlief

University of Hamburg

Christoph Teucher

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

Key audit matter (KAM) reporting was introduced to increase the usefulness of audit reports, yet prior studies suggest that investors do not perceive it as such. We discuss how KAM reporting could be potentially useful for investors to infer insights on audit quality. We identify KAM type-specific audit procedures for the most common KAMs (intangibles, taxes, revenues, and M&As) and examine their association with audit quality. Using comprehensive KAM reporting in Germany, we find that for intangible-related KAMs, involving valuation specialists; for tax-related KAMs, involving tax advisors; and for revenue-related KAMs, using external confirmations is associated with higher audit quality at the account level. For audit quality at the entity level, we obtain similar results, presumably due to the high importance of KAMs. Regarding M&A-related KAMs affecting multiple accounts, we find that using market-based valuation data is associated with higher audit quality at the entity level.

Keywords: audit quality, audit procedures, key audit matters, valuation specialists, tax advisors, external confirmations, market-based valuation data JEL Classification: M4, M42, M48

JEL Classification: M4, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kaakschlief, Annalena and Teucher, Christoph and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Key Audit Matters and their Specific Audit Procedures - What Audit Reports Tell us about Audit Quality at the Account and Entity Level (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5168223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5168223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
P Agrawal , A Tarca , D Woodliff
External auditors' evaluation of management's expert's credibility: evidence from Australia
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 90 - 109 Posted: 2020
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
M Al-Mulla , M E Bradbury
Auditor, client, and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2022
M A F Altawalbeh , M E S Alhajaya
The Investors Reaction to the Disclosure of Key Audit Matters: Emirpical Evidence from Jordan
International Business Research , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
304,992
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies