Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Closing the books or keeping them open? Identity work in partner retirement from Big 4 accounting firms

52 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2025 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Lisa Baudot

HEC Paris

Takahiro Endo

University of Victoria

saori matsubara

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 10, 2025

Abstract

One view of the socialization experienced by professionals in global Big 4 firms suggests that the intensity of socialization engenders a strong and deep-rooted professional identity. We scrutinize this claim by drawing on interviews with partners who retired from life-long employment in Big 4 firms in Japan. Through partners’ reflections on their experiences in detaching from the firm, we examine how socialization manifests in partners’ identity work. We find that partners’ identity, which often appears entrenched, invariable and heroic, can be highly fragile and vulnerable to changing circumstances. Before leaving the firm, interviewees attempt to reconcile their Big 4 ‘graduation’ with feelings of obsolescence and a growing distance from previous accomplishments. After leaving the firm, interviewees revisit the identity built throughout their careers. Unable to move on to a selfhood detached from that identity, they refashion their identity relative to their former Big 4 partner self, backgrounding their private life and post-firm professional affiliations. Not knowing how to ‘close the books,’ retired partners seek comfort in the old ‘plot’ and in the old ‘characters,’ finding ways to ‘keep the books open’ even after the ‘setting’ has changed. Our results reconfirm the powerful socialization experienced by partners during their tenure with the Big 4, but run counter to scholarship that characterizes the identity of Big 4 partners as strong and fixed. Rather, we demonstrate the insecurity underlying our professional service heroes’ identity work and the contingent identity work processes that partners engage in while navigating departure from the Big 4.

Keywords: Big 4 partners, identity work, non-Western firms, professional insecurity, professional services firms, socialization

Suggested Citation:

Baudot, Lisa and Endo, Takahiro and matsubara, saori, Closing the books or keeping them open? Identity work in partner retirement from Big 4 accounting firms (February 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5176745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5176745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
S Ahuja , H Heizmann , S Clegg
Emotions and identity work: Emotions as discursive resources in the constitution of junior professionals' identities
Human Relations , volume 72 , issue 5 , p. 988 - 1009 Posted: 2018
S Albert , D Whetten , L Cummings , B M Staw
Organizational identity
Research in Organizational Behavior , p. 263 - 295 Posted: 1985
M Alvesson
Knowledge work: Ambiguity, image and identity
Human Relations , volume 54 , issue 7 , p. 863 - 886 Posted: 2001
M Alvesson , K L Ashcraft , R Thomas
Identity matters: Reflections on the construction of identity scholarship in organization studies
Organization , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 28 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
RANK
747,753
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies