Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emotions in the Auditors' World: The Influence of Emotions and Emotional Trainings on Auditors' Judgments

Posted: 24 Apr 2025

Klaus Ruhnke

Freie Universitaet Berlin - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Peter N. C. Mohr

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Business and Economics; Free University of Berlin

Daniel Kundt

Freie Universität, Berlin

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines emotions in the auditor's world. However, little is known regarding these emotions. We therefore employ a stepwise approach in this research. First, on the basis of exploratory interviews conducted with 24 Big 4 auditors, we provide a holistic perspective on audit-related emotions. These interviews reveal that both (i) interpersonal client-induced emotions and (ii) unrelated background emotions often impact auditors' judgments. Second, in light of these considerations, our experiment conducted with 155 Big 4 auditors simultaneously analyzes the effects of emotional training on client-induced negative emotions and unrelated background emotions. The results of this experiment indicate that training is helpful to consider client-induced negative emotions as information (audit evidence) in the process of making audit judgments. This finding is in line with psychological research on the affect-as-information hypothesis. Our findings also suggest that more positive unrelated background emotions lead to less strict judgments while emotional training reduces this effect substantially. In summary, emotional training helps auditors mitigate the influence of unrelated background emotions and integrate informative client-related emotions into their judgments as audit evidence. We discuss the implications of these findings for audit practice and standard setters as well as directions for future audit-related research.

Keywords: affects, emotions, emotional training, auditors' judgment, interviews

Suggested Citation:

Ruhnke, Klaus and Mohr, Peter N. C. and Kundt, Daniel, Emotions in the Auditors' World: The Influence of Emotions and Emotional Trainings on Auditors' Judgments (March 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178480
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies