Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using IFRS or US GAAP in the United States: The Case of Audit Fees

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: March 17, 2025

Abstract

We find that US-listed foreign firms using IFRS pay higher audit fees than those that report using US GAAP. Additional analyses reveal that our key inference is not due to the differences in the demand for Big 4 auditors, familiarity with IFRS, listing status, financial reporting quality, country composition, or adoption of IFRS in the home country. Moreover, using path analysis and a three-way comparison, we provide evidence that audit effort explains the association between the use of IFRS and audit fees beyond litigation and regulatory risk. Our findings are of potential interest to US cross-listed firms contemplating the use of IFRS, investors interested in learning about the costs of using different accounting standards, regulators concerned about the audit cost of requiring IFRS in the U.S. audit market, and academics investigating audit fee differences.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Khurana, Inder, Using IFRS or US GAAP in the United States: The Case of Audit Fees (March 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5182707
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies