Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exception Rule Generation from Exception and Outliers

35 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025 Last revised: 8 Apr 2025

Nuriddin Tojiboyev

The College of New Jersey

Date Written: December 27, 2024

Abstract

This manuscript proposes using a feedback loop built from confirmed instances of misstatements detected by exception and outlier analyses to update existing rules or generate new rules for additional filter discovery. This addition to the analytics of the continuous audit advises auditors about risks they are not aware of and recommends new filters that should be added to the transaction verification module. The proposed artifact improves the utilization of risk scores in transaction verification, allowing the users to decide how deeply they prefer to focus on balanced or unbalanced filter values. The analyses of confirmed instances of outliers allow the users to develop additional useful rules to catch exceptions, the rules that the users are not aware of. I believe that the proposed extensions have the potential to become an important component of the continuous audit framework.

Keywords: audit analytics, audit selection, audit exceptions, audit outliers, continuous audit, transaction verification, audit filters, filter rules, rule induction

Suggested Citation:

Tojiboyev, Nuriddin, Exception Rule Generation from Exception and Outliers (December 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5187209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5187209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: A pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at Siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 161 Posted: 2006
M Alles , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Putting continuous auditing theory into practice: lessons from two pilot implementations
Journal of Information Systems , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2008
L Breiman , J H Friedman , R A Olshen , C J Stone
Classification and regression trees Posted: 1984
H Brown-Liburd , H Issa , D Lombardi
Behavioral implications of big data's impact on audit judgment and decision making and future research directions
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 451 - 468 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
282
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies