Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Synergizing Auditors and Machines: Evidence from Going Concern Assessment

54 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2025

Yu Gu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chanyuan (Abigail) Parker

The University of Texas at San Antonio, Alvarez College of Business

Miklos Vasarhelyi

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Amid recent attention over auditors’ ability to properly assess client firms’ going concerns, this study examines the potential for auditor and Machine Learning (ML) collaboration in assessing going concerns. We first examine the comparative performance of auditors and ML. Consistent with bounded rationality, we find that errors in auditor-issued Going Concern Opinions (GCOs) are associated with auditors’ capability, cognitive bias, and constraints. In contrast, we find that ML tends to make mistakes when unobservable information exists that cannot be directly incorporated into ML models. Using a novel approach, we derive a “team” assessment that integrates auditors and ML. Our results show that the team assessments can synergize the relative advantages of auditor and ML, and overcome their relative disadvantages, serving as a potential way of generating higher-quality going concern assessments. Our research has implications for accounting practitioners and regulators regarding auditor-machine collaboration in the “AI era.”

Keywords: Going Concern Opinion, Audit Quality, Professional Judgment, Cognitive Constraints, Man-Machine Collaboration, machine learning

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yu and Parker, Chanyuan (Abigail) and Vasarhelyi, Miklos, Synergizing Auditors and Machines: Evidence from Going Concern Assessment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5188283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5188283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
E Alpaydin
Introduction to machine learning Posted: 2020
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968-02
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Audit. J. Pract. Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms using a machine learning approach
J. Account. Res , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
219,016
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies