Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Needs-Based Examination of Supervisor-Subordinate Communication in Distributed Audit Teams

51 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2025

Devon Jefferson

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

In the contemporary audit environment, teams are often geographically distributed rather than co-located. This allows core engagement team members like supervisors and subordinates to work from distinct geographic locations given advancements in computer-mediated communication tools. Yet, regulators continue to raise concerns that geographic distribution can affect communication and supervision in audit teams and lead to audit deficiencies. We interview 32 auditors, including 6 matched pairs, to understand the complexities of supervisor-subordinate communication in distributed teams. Analyzing our data through the lens of self-determination theory, we find that senior auditors struggle to fulfill subordinates' psychological needs for competence and connection while meeting their own need for job control. As a result, both supervisors and subordinates adapt their communication strategies to satisfy personal needs. While some strategies are mutually beneficial, others create tensions that impact team dynamics and audit quality. Our study extends the literature by offering deep insight into the nuances of communication in distributed teams that provides guidance for firms and regulators on communication in practice and root causes of audit quality issues. In doing so, this study also makes a contribution to the broader organizational behavior literature on the role of self-determination theory. Specifically, we extend our understanding of the challenges of meeting psychological needs in remote and hybrid work environments and identify workers' communication strategies to satisfy these needs to maintain their well-being, motivation, and work performance.

Keywords: distributed teams, audit quality, self-determination, communication strategies, psychological needs, hybrid work

Ethics Approval

The Institutional review board at our university provided approval of this human subjects research.

Suggested Citation:

Jefferson, Devon and Andiola, Lindsay M., A Needs-Based Examination of Supervisor-Subordinate Communication in Distributed Audit Teams (March 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5191546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5191546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
C Agoglia , R C Hatfield , J Brazel
The effects of audit review format on review team judgments
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 111 Posted: 2009
Generally Accepting Auditing Standards, AU Section 150 Posted: 2001
L M Andiola , J C Bedard
Delivering the "tough message": Moderators of subordinate auditors' reactions to feedback
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 70 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2018
L M Andiola , J C Bedard , K D Westermann
It's not my fault! Insights into subordinate auditors' attributions and emotions following audit review
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies