Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Wadiah Yad Dhamanah Deposit Account Through the Lense of the Shariah Auditor

978-999-84-51-12-4

14 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2025

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Date Written: August 01, 2023

Abstract

Case Study 9: Understanding Wadiah Yad Dhamanah Deposit Account Through The Lense of The Shariah Auditor. The issue of undisclosed any returns for wadiah yad dhamanah saving account was discussed in this case. In this issue, customers always argue with the procedure that does not disclose on agreement or contract, but also cannot disclose verbally. If this issue is not understood clearly by the frontlines of the Islamic bank, such as teller officers and desk officers on the needs not to disclose the return for wadiah yad dhamanah deposit account, it would lead to invalid contract. In this case, readers will be exposes on the concept of deposit account and wadiah yad dhamanah. Besides, readers also will be tested on Shariah audit procedure on wadiah yad dhamanah deposit account that covering such as source of funds, contract agreement, withdrawal of cash, and others.

Keywords: Wadiah Yad Dhamanah, Deposit Account, Shariah Auditor

Suggested Citation:

Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham, Understanding Wadiah Yad Dhamanah Deposit Account Through the Lense of the Shariah Auditor (August 01, 2023). 978-999-84-51-12-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Actors & Players eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies