Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Pen-and-Paper to Technology-Driven Analytics: Technology Usage in Internal Auditing

47 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Martin Wagener

University of Duisburg-Essen

Annika Bonrath

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: March 10, 2025

Abstract

While thought leaders assume audit technology will enhance internal audit quality, research has provided limited evidence. This study surveys 285 chief audit executives (CAEs) in 2020 and compares their responses with those of 447 CAEs in 2023 to explore changes of internal audit quality from using software and data analytics over time. From 2020 to 2023, internal audit functions (IAFs) showed a steady shift toward more sophisticated and digitalized data analytics, with increased integration and reduced reliance on paper-based and spreadsheet tools, though full optimization remains limited. The findings also show that the use of audit management software (data analysis software) is positively associated with improvements in internal audit efficiency (effectiveness) across both time points. Notably, internal auditing's data analytics maturity is associated with increased measures of internal audit quality, a trend that strengthens in the 2023 data. These findings provide evidence that software and data analytics is beneficial.

Keywords: Software, Data Analytics, Internal Auditing, Internal Audit Quality, Maturity JEL-Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Wagener, Martin and Bonrath, Annika, From Pen-and-Paper to Technology-Driven Analytics: Technology Usage in Internal Auditing (March 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
A Ahmi , S Kent
The utilization of generalized audit software (GAS) by external auditors
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 113 Posted: 2012
U Anderson , M H Christ , K Johnstone , L Rittenberg
A Post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , M E Peecher
The joint effect of rich data visualization and analytical procedure categorization on auditor judgment Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
RANK
576,212
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies