Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Shariah Audit Training Impact on Shariah Audit Understanding by Malaysian Students

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, volume 13, issue 1, 2023[10.6007/IJARAFMS/v13-i1/16150]

21 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Mustafa Mohd Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Zurina Shafii

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM)

Supiah Salleh

Supiah Salleh

nurazalia zakaria

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 22, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to analyse the impact of Shariah audit training on the understanding of Shariah audit knowledge by final year students in Malaysian universities. Specifically, this study investigates the understanding of final year students from Malaysian universities based on Shariah audit knowledge learned by comparing the understanding before and after enrolling in the Certified Professional Shariah Auditor (CPSA) training program conducted under the National Graduate Employability (GE 2020) initiative. Shariah audit knowledge is measured through training modules covering Shariah principles, Shariah governance, Islamic financial transactions, Shariah risk management, Shariah audit planning and programme and Shariah audit fieldwork and communication. A survey method was used to collect data from 296 graduates of 13 Malaysian public universities who were enrolled in the training program from July to August 2020. The study found that fresh graduates improved their understanding of Shariah audit knowledge after joining the Shariah audit training. In particular, female students and students with muamalat/Islamic economic background highly improved their Shariah audit knowledge from this CPSA training program compared to other students. In addition, the results also show that Shariah audit education background does not play a significant impact on students' understanding of Shariah audit knowledge after completing Shariah audit training-CPSA program. This study is believed to be the first study in recognising the impact of Shariah audit training on Shariah audit understanding by students.

Keywords: Shariah Audit, Shariah Audit Training, Shariah Audit Understanding, Shariah Audit Knowledge, Graduate Employability (GE), Islamic Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Mohd Hanefah, Mustafa and Shafii, Zurina and Salleh, Supiah and zakaria, nurazalia, Exploring Shariah Audit Training Impact on Shariah Audit Understanding by Malaysian Students (March 22, 2023). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, volume 13, issue 1, 2023[10.6007/IJARAFMS/v13-i1/16150], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5194066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Abd Majid , A Samsudin , M A Laton , M Z Aziz , N N
Islamic Finances Growth in Malaysia: The Challenges. Paper presented at Konferensi Akademik (KONAKA 2016), 30 November Posted: 2016
S M Abdulla , Muhamad Sori , Z Abdul Wahab , S Al Homsi , M
Shariah Audit: Challenges and the Way Forward
Contemporary Issues in Financial Reporting of Islamic Financial Institutions Posted: 2019
A A Al-Twaijry , J A Brierley , D R Gwilliam
The Development of Internal Audit in Saudi Arabia: An Institutional Theory Perspective
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 531 Posted: 2003
L Algabry , S M Alhabshi , Y Soualhi , O Alaeddin
Conceptual Framework of Internal Shariah Audit Effectiveness Factors in Islamic Banks
ISRA International Journal of Islamic Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 171 - 193 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
139
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies