Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resisting Management Influence: Auditor Characteristics that Inhibit Motivated Reasoning

48 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2025

Brian Fitzgerald

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Brent Garza

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Emily Shafron

Texas A&M University - College of Business and Technology

Kecia Smith

North Carolina A&T State University

Date Written: March 25, 2025

Abstract

We examine the characteristics of auditors who successfully inhibit motivated reasoning throughout an audit task. We find that most auditors are initially inclined to challenge management’s preferred, aggressive reporting. However, after reviewing audit evidence suggesting the unreasonableness of management’s reporting, we find that many auditors do not ultimately judge management’s aggressive reporting as unreasonable. This finding suggests that many auditors succumb to motivated reasoning during the audit task. We find that auditors who successfully inhibit motivated reasoning have higher cognitive ability and expend greater cognitive effort eliminating management’s preference from their judgment. Cognitive ability or cognitive effort alone is insufficient. Additionally, higher levels of emotional stability, extraversion, and dispositional fear of negative evaluation (agreeableness) positively (negatively) correlate with auditors inhibiting motivated reasoning. Given audit firms’ increased interest in understanding how individual traits shape auditors’ behavior, our study offers insights into which auditors are better able to guard against management influence. 

Keywords: Management Preferences, Management Influence, Motivated Reasoning, Audit Quality, Auditor Characteristics

Declaration of Interest

None of the authors have any conflicts of interest related to this research.

Ethics Approval

The Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the supervising institution approved the data collections and materials.

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Fitzgerald, Brian and Garza, Brent and Shafron, Emily and Smith, Kecia, Resisting Management Influence: Auditor Characteristics that Inhibit Motivated Reasoning (March 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5196151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5196151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
M Ariel
Most. Language , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 658 - 706 Posted: 2004
S J Armstrong , E Cools , E Sadler-Smith
Role of cognitive styles in business and management: Reviewing 40 years of research
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 238 - 262 Posted: 2012
A , E N Aron , D Smollan
Inclusion of other in the self scale and the structure of interpersonal closeness
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 596 - 612 Posted: 1992
K Auspurg , T Hinz
, volume 175 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
RANK
864,731
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies