Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independence at What Cost? Regulation, Accounting Careers, and Human Capital

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/051

63 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2025 Last revised: 31 Jul 2025

Vivek Pandey

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Xingyu Shen

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Xixi Xiao

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 28, 2025

Abstract

 On-the-job training is a key driver of human capital development (Becker, 1962). We argue that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), aimed at strengthening auditor independence, changed the economics of public accounting and unintentionally reduced opportunities for accountants to invest in their human capital on the job. SOX barred public accounting firms from offering consulting services to audit clients and introduced barriers to accountants transitioning to client firms. This weakened opportunities for collaboration between audit and consulting, limited accountants’ exposure to addressing clients’ business problems, and reduced networking. This diminished opportunities for accountants to gain broad experience, develop skills, and grow professional networks, making the accounting profession less attractive, especially to top talent. Using individual-level data, we compare accountants (treated group) and consultants (bechmark group) before and after SOX, within the same public accounting firm, time, and location. After SOX, accountants were less likely to move into consulting roles or to client (and non-client) firms, and their wages declined. Consistent with reduced career opportunities discouraging accounting education, we find a drop in the quality of students declaring accounting majors after SOX. Importantly, to more directly connect career opportunities to university accounting enrollments, we show that when university alumni transitions from public accounting to consulting decline, both the quantity and quality of subsequent accounting enrollments at their alma maters drop. We uncover a previously overlooked cost of regulations concerning the accounting profession.

Keywords: Regulation, SOX, Human capital, Labor market, Auditor independence, Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M50, I26, J24, J30, J44, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Pandey, Vivek and Shen, Xingyu and Wu, Joanna S. and Xiao, Xixi, Independence at What Cost? Regulation, Accounting Careers, and Human Capital (March 28, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/051, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5197320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5197320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Ahn , E Bogdani , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Incumbent Audit Firm Alumni and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2025
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The Influence of Labor Market Power in the Audit Profession
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , p. 65 - 95 Posted: 2024
H Averch , L L Johnson
Behavior of the firm under regulatory constraint
The American Economic Review , volume 52 , p. 1052 - 1069 Posted: 1962
R Ball
Accountants Learn Economics the Hard Way: A Commentary on Declining Enrolments. Available at SSRN 4715570 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
228,448
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies