Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Smart Contracts 

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

53 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2025 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Evgeny Lyandres

Tel Aviv University

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

We study the emerging market for audits of Decentralized Finance (DeFi) smart contracts. We examine two questions. First, what factors influence DeFi protocol developers' decisions to audit their smart contracts and their choice of auditors? Second, is having an audit associated with better outcomes post protocol launch, such as attracting more funds or reducing security breaches, and do these outcomes vary across auditors? We analyze 8,195 audit reports from 117 auditing firms and 1,575 DeFi protocols between January 2020 and October 2023. We find that the decision to audit and the choice of auditor depend on protocol characteristics, such as deployment on a popular blockchain, offering common financial services, and risk level. Protocol performance increases with auditor market share and launch rate, and decreases with auditor hack rate. Protocols audited by decentralized auditors, or "bounty hunters," are also associated with better outcomes. Additionally, audited protocols experience a milder negative response to adverse DeFi market shocks. However, we find little evidence that audits reduce future security breaches. Instead, protocols are more likely to switch auditors following a breach. Overall, our study provides evidence on the use and value of voluntary smart contract audits in the emerging decentralized finance market.

Keywords: DeFi, decentralized finance, smart contracts, security breaches, blockchain, Auduting

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, O16

Suggested Citation:

Landsman, Wayne R. and Lyandres, Evgeny and Maydew, Edward L. and Rabetti, Daniel, Auditing Smart Contracts  (March 27, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for bombs: The predictability of on-chain transfers for terrorist attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
D Amiram , E Lyandres , D Rabetti
Trading volume manipulation and competition among centralized crypto exchanges
Forthcoming. Management Science Posted: 2024
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,070
RANK
213,875
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Hong Kong University Business School: HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies