Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"A Fly on the Wall": Promoting Auditors' Observational Learning with Cognitive Process Modeling and Learning Climate

56 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2025

Emily E. Griffith

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Allison S. Hickey

University of Memphis

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Audit firms rely on the apprenticeship model to train auditors, and by extension to support audit quality. Under this model, firms expect junior auditors to learn through passive observation of their superiors like “a fly on the wall.” We experimentally examine two factors that we expect to increase observational learning and subsequent performance of complex audit tasks. We predict and find that when (1) supervisors model cognitive processes by making connections between the facts and strategies they use for a task and (2) audit teams have stronger learning climates that promote attention to one’s environment, junior auditors develop more elaborated problem representations that reflect these connections, leading to higher-quality judgments. The integration of task-relevant facts and strategies in cognitive modeling is especially important when the implications of relevant information are unclear without a deeper understanding of relationships among the information. Overall, we provide insight into cognitive and social factors that influence observational learning and quality in the audit environment. 

Keywords: Observational learning, Cognitive apprenticeship, Learning climate, Audit environment, Auditor judgment, Social norms

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval was obtained for all studies reported in the paper.

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Emily Elaine and Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Hickey, Allison, "A Fly on the Wall": Promoting Auditors' Observational Learning with Cognitive Process Modeling and Learning Climate (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5200422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5200422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L M Andiola , J F Brazel , D H Downey , T J Schaefer
Coaching Today's auditors: What causes reviewers to adopt a more developmental approach? Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 112 Posted: 2024
L M Andiola , D H Downey , K D Westermann
Examining Climate and Culture in Audit Firms: Insights, Practice Implications, and Future Research Directions
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
S K Asare , A M Wright
The Effectiveness of Alternative Risk Assessment and Program Planning Tools in a Fraud Setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
G Ashman , S Kalyuga , J Sweller
Problem-solving or Explicit Instruction: Which Should Go First When Element Interactivity Is High?
Educational Psychology Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 229 - 247 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
355
RANK
792,195
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies