Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing the Mark-to-Model: Evidence from Revisions of Standards in Fixed-Income Mutual Funds

55 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Wenyin Li

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Accounting

Quan Qi

Middle Tennessee State University - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of standardized audit guidance on subjectivity in fair value reporting. We focus on the fixed-income mutual fund sector, where fair value reporting is particularly critical due to the prevalence of these funds holding illiquid fixed-income assets, which often lack sufficient market quotations as valuation benchmarks. Using two difference-in-differences research designs, we document a significant improvement in the precision of reported fair values following revisions to two PCAOB auditing standards, which introduced detailed guidance on auditing fair value estimates and auditors’ use of the work of specialists. The effects are especially pronounced for securities characterized by high estimation uncertainty and for funds with strong manipulation incentives, suggesting that the revised auditing standards alleviate management bias in fair value reporting. We also document an increase in audit fees following the revisions, suggesting enhanced auditors’ effort as a likely mechanism for the improvement in fair value reporting. Our findings highlight the effectiveness of auditing standard-setting in promoting financial reporting integrity within the asset management industry.

Keywords: AS 2501, AS 1210, fair value precision, specialists, fixed-income mutual fund

JEL Classification: M42, G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Li, Wenyin and Qi, Quan, Auditing the Mark-to-Model: Evidence from Revisions of Standards in Fixed-Income Mutual Funds (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5208000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5208000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
V Agarwal , B Barber , S Cheng , A Hameed , A Yasuda
Private company valuations by mutual funds
Review of Finance , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 693 - 738 Posted: 2023
Aicpa
Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
RANK
778,997
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies