Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters

Posted: 10 Apr 2025

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 04, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how the quantity and textual attributes of critical audit matters (CAMs) vary with perceived litigation risk and financial reporting quality. Consistent with the litigation hypothesis, we find that auditors disclose more CAMs when litigation risk is high, likely to preempt negative consequences from shareholder lawsuits. Further, CAMs quantity increases when financial reporting quality decreases, reflecting the inherent quality of financial statements. However, CAMs are less readable and more boilerplate in the presence of high litigation risk and low financial reporting quality. Our results highlight complementary effects of litigation risk, financial reporting quality, and their interaction on CAMs quantity and textual attributes. Auditors appear to manage litigation exposure by increasing CAMs quantity while utilizing opaque, standardized language to shield clients with lower financial reporting quality. Pairwise analyses show that CAM textual characteristics are largely shaped at the audit firm level, challenging the PCAOB’s objective of attaining engagement-specific CAMs. 

Keywords: Audit Report, Critical Audit Matters, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, CAM Readability, CAM Boilerplate

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and Sulcaj, Valbona, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters (April 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5211677
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies