Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence in Audit Materiality: The Impact of Public Disclosure on Auditors' Behavior and Quality

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/039

64 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2025 Last revised: 26 May 2025

Omar de Ines Anton

CUNEF Universidad

Stavriana Hadjigavriel

CUNEF University

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

We explore the public disclosure of materiality to understand whether it influences decisions regarding materiality thresholds. Disclosure of audit materiality may facilitate the assessment of auditors' assurance, thereby narrowing the expectation gap. However, disclosure may also induce industry-convergence towards average materiality thresholds; or be exploited by low quality auditors to justify higher materiality. Using a large sample of UK firms, following the materiality disclosure requirements introduced by ISA 700, we predict and find evidence that disclosure triggers industry-convergence in materiality thresholds. This convergence is not accompanied by changes to audit fees, but we document audit quality effects. Industry converging materiality changes are negatively associated with restatements when the firm decreases materiality to converge towards the average. In contrast, materiality convergence appears to worsen audit quality when auditors initial positioning is below industry benchmarks and need to increase materiality to meet industry's thresholds.

Keywords: audit materiality, herding, industry convergence, audit fee, audit quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

de Ines Anton, Omar and Hadjigavriel, Stavriana and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Guillamon Saorin, Encarna, Convergence in Audit Materiality: The Impact of Public Disclosure on Auditors' Behavior and Quality (March 01, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/039, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5211364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5211364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
The materiality of accounting errors: Evidence from SEC comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 839 - 868 Posted: 2019
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Amiram , J Chircop , W R Landsman , K V Peasnell
Mandatorily disclosed materiality thresholds, their determinants, and their association with earnings multiples
Columbia Business School Research Paper , p. 15 - 69 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
697,815
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Hong Kong University Business School: HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies