Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group Judgment and Decision Making in Auditing: Research in the Time of Covid-19 and Beyond

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 41, issue 1, 2022[10.2308/AJPT-2020-147]

Posted: 1 May 2025

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Kerry A. Humphreys

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Ken Trotman

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: May 11, 2021

Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic has fundamentally changed how auditors work and interact with team members and others in the financial reporting process. In particular, there has been a move away from face-to-face interactions to the use of virtual teams, with strong indications many of these changes will remain post-pandemic. We examine the impacts of the pandemic on group judgment and decision making (JDM) research in auditing by reviewing research on auditor interactions with respect to the review process (including coaching), fraud brainstorming, consultations within audit firms, and parties outside the audit firm such as client management and the audit committee. Through the pandemic lens and for each auditor interaction, we consider new research questions for audit JDM researchers to investigate and new ways of addressing existing research questions given these fundamental changes. We also identify potential impacts on research methods used to address these questions during the pandemic and beyond.

Keywords: auditor interactions, audit teams, group judgment and decision-making research, COVID-19 pandemic, virtual teamwork

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Tim and Humphreys, Kerry A. and Trotman, Ken,
Group Judgment and Decision Making in Auditing: Research in the Time of Covid-19 and Beyond
(May 11, 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, volume 41, issue 1, 2022[10.2308/AJPT-2020-147], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5213810
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
209
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies