Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Guardians of Financial Integrity: The Ethical Responsibilities of Auditors in Fraud Detection and Prevention

6 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2025

Asma Basyouni

Deloitte GmbH, Audit and Assurance Department, ; Independent Researcher

Date Written: April 14, 2025

Abstract

Financial fraud remains one of the most significant threats to corporate governance, investor confidence and global markets. Auditors are ideally placed to become ethical sentinels to identify and mitigate all fraudulent activity in financial documents. This paper examines the ethical obligations of auditors and emphasizes the principles of integrity, objectivity, and professional skepticism as drivers of the auditors' contribution to fraud detection. Based on important literature, regulatory frameworks and high-profile corporate scandals, the article studies the challenges auditors face, such as conflicts of interest, organizational pressure and ethical blind spots. It also makes recommendations for improving ethical consciousness and independence in the profession. As the world of business changes, reiterating the ethical mandate for auditors will continue to be important to ensure financial accountability.

Keywords: Auditor Ethics, Fraud Detection, Professional Skepticism, Corporate Integrity, Financial Misstatement

JEL Classification: M42, M14, M48, K42

Suggested Citation:

Basyouni, Asma, Guardians of Financial Integrity: The Ethical Responsibilities of Auditors in Fraud Detection and Prevention (April 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5216267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5216267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J Cohen , G Krishnamoorthy , A Wright
Corporate Governance and the Audit Process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 573 - 594 Posted: 2002-04-09
Ifac
ISA 240: The Auditor's Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements
International Federation of Accountants Posted: 2021-04-11
M Kaptein
Developing a Measure of Unethical Behavior in the Workplace: A Stakeholder Perspective
Journal of Management , volume 34 , issue 5 , p. 978 - 1008 Posted: 2008-04-12
B Sweeney , D F Arnold , B Pierce
The Impact of Perceived Ethical Culture of the Firm and Demographic Variables on Auditors' Ethical Evaluation and Intention to Act Decisions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 531 - 551 Posted: 2010-04-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies