Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tracing the Audit Trail of Global Financial Disruptions: How Policymakers Address Systemic Red Flags

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Asma Basyouni

Deloitte GmbH, Audit and Assurance Department, ; Independent Researcher

Date Written: April 16, 2025

Abstract

In an age of financial volatility and growing global interdependence, audit trails are turning out to be key tools to detect systematic exposures and improve economic stability (Alles & Vasarhelyi, 2018). Such mechanisms increase transparency and help policymakers act on timely interventions and implement structural reforms (IFAC, 2024). In a world where transparency is essential, this article explores how companies and governments can prevent a Titanic shipwreck of an economic crisisall helped by audit trails. It shows that audits highlight systemwide failures, discourage regulatory deviance and restore investor trust, drawing on significant case studies from the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, the recent Wirecard AG and Greensill Capital accounting scandals, and beyond (Enriques & Zetzsche, 2022; Barzuza et al., 2021). Moreover, the development of this dialogue focuses on the transformative impact of emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI) and blockchain, for the optimization of audit techniques and the enhanced verification process of data in real-time (Yoon et al., 2015; Dai & Vasarhelyi, 2017). Its further grapples with cyber threats, geopolitical volatility, and the limitations of piecemeal global regulatory collaboration (PwC, 2023). This article, therefore, delineates the essential nature of audit practices in establishing sustainable financial governance by considering recent predicaments and forward-looking recommendations.

Keywords: Audit Trails, Financial Crises, Al in Auditing, Regulatory Oversight, Blockchain Assurance, Systemic Risk

JEL Classification: M42, G01, H12, M48, K22, G18

Suggested Citation:

Basyouni, Asma, Tracing the Audit Trail of Global Financial Disruptions: How Policymakers Address Systemic Red Flags (April 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5219471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5219471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M Alles , M A Vasarhelyi
The evolution of auditing: From the traditional approach to the future audit
Journal of Information Systems , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2018
Ifac
The state of play: Sustainability disclosure & assurance 2019-2022
International Federation of Accountants Posted: 2024
L Enriques , D A Zetzsche
The Wirecard scandal and its lessons for EU public oversight
Capital Markets Law Journal , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 61 Posted: 2022
M Barzuza , Q Curtis , D H Webber
ESG and private ordering
The University of Chicago Business Law Review , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies