Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Externalities from Forcing Hospitals to Audit: Evidence from the Single Audit Act 

56 Pages Posted: 15 May 2025

Zhaosong Ruan

University of Chicago - Harris School of Public Policy

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Xinyi Xie

University of North Dakota

Vincent (Qiru) Zhang

Santa Clara University - Accounting

Date Written: February 24, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the real effects of financial statement audits in non-profit and government hospitals, using changes in audit requirements under the Single Audit Act. Comparing hospitals newly exempted from audits with those consistently audited or never audited, we find that exempted hospitals improved efficiency, measured by a 3.5% reduction in the cost-to-charge ratio. However, this efficiency gain is driven primarily from increased "charges" rather than decreased "costs", suggesting patient overtreatment. An implication of these findings is that forced audits provide a societal benefit by curbing excessive treatment despite reducing reported efficiency. Cross-sectional analyses further reveal that overtreatment post the audit exemption is more pronounced in hospitals with weaker internal controls, greater moral hazard, and a higher tendency toward defensive medicine. Our research highlights the externalities of the Single Audit Act, particularly in the healthcare sector.

Keywords: Single Audit Act, mandatory audits, hospital efficiency, patient overtreatment

Suggested Citation:

Ruan, Zhaosong and Venkatachalam, Mohan and Xie, Xinyi and Zhang, Vincent (Qiru), Externalities from Forcing Hospitals to Audit: Evidence from the Single Audit Act  (February 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5222877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5222877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
520
RANK
531,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies