Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Risk Management and Corporate Performance of Selected Small-scale Firms in Nigeria

15 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Adejoke Aderinto

Bowen University Iwo, Nigeria

Date Written: February 18, 2025

Abstract

The study examined the influence of financial risk management on corporate performance of selected small-scale firms in Nigeria. The specific objective was to determine the extent to which operational risks and liquidity risks influence the corporate performance of selected small-scale firms in Nigeria. This study adopted a survey research design. The target population for this study consists of managers of small-scale firms in Nigeria. Using snowballing sampling technique, 35 managers of small-scale firms were selected from each of the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria, resulting in a total sample size of 210 respondents. Primary data for this study were collected using a structured questionnaire. The reliability of the instrument was tested using Cronbach's Alpha, which measures internal consistency. The data collected were first analyzed using frequency analysis to show the distribution of the responses to the research questions. For the inferential aspect, multiple regression analysis was used to test the two hypotheses developed in line with the study's objectives. It was found that: operational risks have a significant negative influence on the corporate performance of selected small-scale firms in Nigeria (β =-0.272, p = 0.002); liquidity risks have a significant negative influence on the corporate performance of selected small-scale firms in Nigeria (β = -0.225, p = 0.026). In conclusion, financial risk, when left unmitigated, can undermine the core functional and financial structures of small enterprises, leading to inefficiencies, reduced profitability, and in severe cases, business failure. By implication, these outcomes emphasize the importance of structured, proactive financial risk management practices in helping small businesses withstand economic pressures and uncertain market dynamics. The study recommends that small-scale firm owners and managers should invest in enhancing their internal risk management frameworks, including the adoption of regular operational audits and process optimization strategies to identify and mitigate operational inefficiencies.

Keywords: Financial Risk Management, Corporate Performance, Operational Risks, Liquidity Risks

Suggested Citation:

Aderinto, Adejoke, Financial Risk Management and Corporate Performance of Selected Small-scale Firms in Nigeria (February 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5230568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5230568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S A Aduloju , O E Akindipe
The Effect of Risk Control Techniques on Organisational Performance of Selected SMES in Lagos State
Acta Universitatis Danubius: Oeconomica , volume 18 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
A Akowe
Risk Management and Financial Performance of Firms in Nigeria: Firm Size as a Moderator
Journal of Public Administration , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 62 - 84 Posted: 2023
S Apaloo , D Bright
The effect of risk management practices on performance of small and medium scale enterprises
, volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2022
J B Barney , D N Clark
Resource-based theory: Creating and sustaining competitive advantage Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
112
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies