Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Auditors' Characteristics and Audit Quality: Literature Analysis

NO

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Dr Prem Lal Joshi

Independent

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to provide a thorough literature review of the findings of auditors' various characteristics and how they affect audit quality starting in 2014. The research studies were extracted mainly from Google Scholar and Direct Science databases that yielded 70 research studies during a ten-year period, since 2014. The auditors' characteristics included here are auditor independence, proficiency, work experience, spiritual intelligence, professional scepticism, and time budget pressure. Interestingly, 65.7% of the studies alone are carried out in the Indonesian context because of a strong emphasis on economic factors and transparency issues in order to improve the auditing systems in Indonesia. The review shows the auditor's industry specialisation, work experience, and spiritual intelligence influence the audit quality, as the literature provides sufficient evidence. However, prior evidence on the effect of professional scepticism, independence, and time budget pressure on audit quality is mixed; as a result, a research gap still exists, and additional research is needed on such characteristics of the auditor. The research also lacks an understanding of how these characteristics impact audit quality in specific contexts like fast-developing economies or emerging markets. The analysis's conclusions show that to achieve the best audit quality, audit firms and professional accounting associations should improve auditor expertise, independence, and professional scepticism while upholding professional ethics. To increase the effectiveness of the audit quality, they would require additional professional and hands-on training. The analysis also provides direction for future research.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Auditor's Characteristics, Auditor Independence, Work Experience, Proficiency, Professional Skepticism, Spiritual Intelligence, Time Budget Pressure

Ethics Approval

It is literature review and do not include patients/participants

Suggested Citation:

Joshi, Dr Prem Lal,

Auditors' Characteristics and Audit Quality: Literature Analysis

(April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5231554
 Not Available for Download
72 References
I S Armawan , I N Wiratmaja
Pengaruh Pengalaman, Kompetensi, Independensi dan Fee Audit pada Kualitas Audit. E-Jurnal Akuntansi , volume 30 , p. 1208 - 1220 Posted: 2020
K Aswar , F G Akbar , M Wiguna , E Hariyani
Determinants of audit quality: Role of time budget pressure
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 308 - 319 Posted: 2021
W Astuty , D A Anindya , D C Ovami , F Pasaribu
The impact of due professional care, time budget pressure and dysfunctional behavior on audit quality
Academy of Entrepreneurship Journal , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2022
N S Awotomilusi
Time pressure influence and audit quality of audit firms in Abuja
Nigeria. International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics (IJMAE) , volume 9 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
187
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies