Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Corporate Disclosures with the Assistance of Task-Specific Artificial Intelligence – A Survey-Based Analysis of its Effectiveness and Efficiency

52 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Jette Fabian

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: April 27, 2025

Abstract

This study empirically examines auditors' perceptions of the impact of task-specific artificial intelligence (AI) on the effectiveness and efficiency of the audit of corporate disclosures. We conduct a survey-based analysis, gathering insights from employees of a Big 4 audit firm in Germany. The Big 4 audit firm introduced an AI tool designed to assist in detecting material misstatements in management reports, e.g., by automatically identifying and matching disclosure requirements with the disclosures prepared by the client. Our results indicate that the AI tool enhances audit effectiveness and efficiency although this result is less pronounced in supporting the detection of more complex qualitative issues (e.g., misleading presentation). This study highlights that perceptions of audit effectiveness and efficiency improvements are not solely driven by technological features but are also moderated by auditors' roles, expertise, and engagement with digital transformation. Trust in the tool and its perceived educational value similarly vary along these lines, emphasizing the relevance of implementation strategies, training, and transparent communication when integrating AI into audit workflows.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, audit quality, audit efficiency, audit effectiveness

Ethics Approval

1. Subject recruitment and subject payment, as needed The contacted participants are potential users of the artificial intelligence tool under investigation, and the selection of participants was coordinated with the collaborating Big 4 audit firm. Participation in the online survey is completely voluntary and no compensation is paid out. However, participants have the chance to win one of three €50 Amazon vouchers. The prize drawing and the questionnaire are separate from each other. 2. Possible risks or side effects for subjects Data protection is guaranteed at all times. There are no known risks to the participants. 3. Biometry Participants only participate in the online survey after giving their individual informed consent regarding the use of their data. The data is processed and used in a pseudonymized form that complies with data protection regulations. All the data that we receive is strictly confidential and in accordance with the statutory data protection regulations. The subsequently published results will not allow for any conclusions to be drawn about single individuals. The only personal data that will be collected pseudonymized and as a voluntary disclosure are age, sex, the duration of employment and career level. 4. Filing and privacy The project has been conducted in accordance with strict data protection regulations. Participants in the study will be thoroughly informed about this at the beginning of the survey, and they can access the privacy policy for this survey from any point within the survey. Formal review and subsequent approval by the Dean's Office of the University of Hamburg have been successfully completed prior to the study.

JEL Classification: D83, O33, M42

Suggested Citation:

Fabian, Jette and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., Auditing Corporate Disclosures with the Assistance of Task-Specific Artificial Intelligence – A Survey-Based Analysis of its Effectiveness and Efficiency (April 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5232779 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5232779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
G Almufadda , N A Almezeini
Artificial intelligence applications in the auditing profession: A literature review
Journal of Emerging Technologies , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 29 - 42 Posted: 2022
B Alter , C Gimbar , J G Jenkins , G Saucedo , N S Wright
Audit roles and the review process: workpaper preparers' and reviewers' differing perspectives
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 438 - 461 Posted: 2019
C R Boddy
Sample Size for qualitative research
Qualitative Market Research: An International Journal , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 426 - 432 Posted: 2016
L A Cooper , D K Holderness , T L Sorensen , D A Wood
Perceptions of robotic process automation in big 4 public accounting firms: do firm leaders and lower-level employees agree
Journal of Emerging Technologies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 51 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
601,250
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies