Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing, Reflection, and Emotion: The Disclosure of Key Audit Matters in Relational Contexts

53 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Zhiyuan (Simon) Tan

The University of Sydney Business School

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

While auditing is recognized as both a social practice and one with emotional dimensions, little research has systematically examined it as a socio-emotional phenomenon. Drawing on Ian Burkitt's theoretical perspectives on reflection, emotion, and social relations, this paper explores how auditors' reflections and emotions regarding specific auditing techniques are shaped by broader social and institutional contexts, which we term "relational contexts". We address this research question through an empirical investigation of auditors' reflections on the disclosure of key audit matters (KAM)-a recent development in financial audit reporting-the emotions integral to these reflections, and their temporal dimensions. Based on twenty-six semi-structured interviews with Chinese auditors, along with auditors' public commentaries and opinions, we show that auditors' reflections and emotions surrounding KAM disclosure are shaped by four relational contexts: traditional audit reporting, oversight bodies and audit inspections, the audit profession, and the state. These relational contexts are characterized by relationships with various entities, circumstances, events, and processes to which auditors are emotionally connected and whose perspectives matter to them. Furthermore, auditors' emotions, as expressed in their reflections, exhibit varying temporal rhythms-some enduring and persistent, others waning and diminishing-across different relational contexts. Our findings highlight the interplay of reflection, emotion, temporality, and relational contexts, providing new insights into the socio-emotional dimensions of auditing. As we demonstrate, auditing techniques, such as KAM disclosure, can serve as a pretext for auditors to reflect on broader economic, institutional, and political issues beyond their technical aspects, with these reflections being infused with emotions.

Keywords: China, Emotion, Key audit matters, Reflection, Relational context, Temporality

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Simon and Xue, Qingmei, Auditing, Reflection, and Emotion: The Disclosure of Key Audit Matters in Relational Contexts (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5236516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5236516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
RANK
856,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies