Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resource Allocation to Engagement Teams: Evidence from Asset-Backed Securitization Assurance Services 

61 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Ran An

Wenzhou-Kean University - College of Business and Public Management; Xiamen University; School of Management, Xiamen University

Jiayan Gao

Xiamen University of Technology

Shan Li

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: November 09, 2022

Abstract

Human resource allocation to engagement teams is the key determinant of the efficiency and quality of assurance production. Employing a unique setting of bank-originated asset-backed securitization (ABS) assurances in China and hand-collected data on ABS assurance teams, we examine resource allocation at the team level among accounting firms that provide both ABS assurance services and financial statement audits to the same client bank, which we term "joint-provision accounting firms." We find that, compared with accounting firms that provide ABS assurance services only, jointprovision firms allocate more auditors to their ABS assurance teams, but these auditors generally have less expertise. We further find that banks audited by joint-provision accounting firms tend to receive higher-quality financial statement audits. Additional analysis indicates that the workload of financial statement auditors and the banking specialization of accounting firms have moderating effects on the association between joint provision and team size (but not team expertise). These results broaden the understanding of dynamics of engagement teams and highlight the implication of resource allocation to other assurance services for financial audit quality.

Keywords: human resource allocation, engagement team, asset-backed securitization assurance, bank financial audit

JEL Classification: G21, M42

Suggested Citation:

An, Ran and Gao, Jiayan and Li, Shan and Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng, Resource Allocation to Engagement Teams: Evidence from Asset-Backed Securitization Assurance Services  (November 09, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5237812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5237812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies