Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of Company's Artificial Intelligence Capability on Audit Fees: Evidence from China

35 Pages Posted: 9 May 2025

MA YUANMING

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Mohd Mohid Rahmat

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Abstract

In recent years, artificial intelligence (AI) technology has developed rapidly, and China has taken intelligent transformation as its core development strategy. However, it is still unknown what impact the risks derived from technological iteration will have on the company itself and other stakeholders. As a regulator and stakeholder, the response to the audit is worth exploring. The empirical results indicate that a company's AIC has a significant positive impact on audit fees. This positive relationship is mediated through three transmission mechanisms: supply chain risks, cybersecurity threats, and litigation risks. Audit tenure negatively regulates the positive effects, indicating that audit experience can play a role in coping with comprehensive business risks caused by AI. Heterogeneity analysis reveals that the positive effect varies with factors such as the regional legal environment, the quality of internal control, and auditor industry specialization, suggesting that audit pricing is closely related to auditor risk sensitivity. Further testing confirms that audit fees indeed incorporate a risk premium factor. This study provides a new perspective for understanding the impact of company intelligence transformation on the audit industry and offers empirical evidence for improving the company’s AIC and accelerating the digital transformation of the audit industry.

Keywords: audit fee, audit tenure, artificial intelligence capability, risk premium, auditor effort

Suggested Citation:

YUANMING, MA and Rahmat, Mohd Mohid, The Spillover Effect of Company's Artificial Intelligence Capability on Audit Fees: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5248758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5248758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
RANK
841,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies