Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Consequences of Accounting Scandals at Audit Clients for Audit Professionals

56 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 8 Oct 2025

Jade Huayu Chen

Loyola Marymount University

Vic Naiker

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

Motivated by the view that many audit professionals perceive employment at large audit firms as a steppingstone to lucrative appointments in other companies, this study examines how Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) issued by the SEC spill over to affect the careers of auditors who are not personally culpable in client misconduct. We find that client AAERs reduce the likelihood that non-culpable audit professionals transitioning to other companies. Tainted audit professionals who transition after a client AAER are less likely to join prestigious companies in the industry and tend to secure lower subsequent salaries compared to peers from unaffected offices. Cross-sectional evidence shows that although greater seniority can cushion these effects, likely due to the experience and networks of senior auditors, client AAERs still diminish their chances of securing senior roles outside the audit profession. In addition, the negative labor market consequences are more pronounced when the AAER is severe or accompanied by negative media coverage. Together, these results show that client AAERs impose substantial contagion effects in the labor market for non-culpable auditors, highlighting the broader implications of client misconduct.

Keywords: AAER, human resources, audit professionals, career transitions and compensation JEL classification: M42

JEL Classification: M42, J44, J30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jade and Naiker, Vic and Wang, Yakun, Labor Market Consequences of Accounting Scandals at Audit Clients for Audit Professionals (May 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Lawrence J Abbott , Katherine A Gunny , Tracey Chunqi Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Andrew A Acito , Chris E Hogan , Richard D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash , Eric Krause
Labor Supply Drought: The Case of Accountant Talent Shortage and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2024
Elizabeth Almer , Julia L Dreike , Karen L Higgs , Hooks
A theoretical framework of the relationship between public accounting firms and their auditors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
505,351
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies