Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Audit Partner Compensation

42 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 19 Aug 2025

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

K. Philip Wang

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Cathy Zhang

University of Florida

Date Written: May 17, 2025

Abstract

Using individual-level income data from mortgage applications, we provide the first empirical study on U.S. audit partner compensation. We find that the average partner compensation is $678,280, ranging from $344,000 in 25 th percentile to $923,000 in 75 th percentile. Over half of the variation in partner compensation is explained by publicly observable audit firm and partner characteristics. Partner compensation is strongly associated with her clients' audit fees but not with non-audit fees; a 1% increase in audit fees corresponds to a 0.11% increase in partner compensation. Partner compensation is significantly lower following adverse internal control opinions but not following restatements. We find no evidence of compensation discrimination against female or minority partners. Profit-sharing occurs at the firm level rather than the office level. Although partners are not rewarded for auditing clients with more critical audit matters, their compensation is more sensitive to audit fees for these riskier clients. Last, partners do not share firm profits with associates but share a small portion with senior associates and managers. Our study contributes to a deeper understanding of U.S. audit partners' incentives and answers calls for research from academics and regulators. 

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Wang, Philip and Zhang, Cheng, U.S. Audit Partner Compensation (May 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5258838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5258838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Allen
Public Meeting on Auditor Independence and Audit Firm Rotation Statement of Charles M. Allen, Chief Executive Officer, Crowe Horwath LLP Posted: 2012-03-22
W Anding , M J Mowchan , T A Seidel , A Zimmerman
Audit Partners in Leadership Roles: Implications for Audit Quality Posted: 2024
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
A L Bakke , E N Cowle , S P Rowe , M S Wilkins
What happens to partners who issue adverse internal control opinions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 649 - 688 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
388,855
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies