Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Lack of Informativeness of Auditors' Going Concern Opinion in Predicting Bankruptcy: A Reexamination Using Machine Learning

This paper has been presented at AAA 2025 AIS and SET Joint Midyear Meeting and Rutgers AIS Seminar.

49 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Yunsen Wang

Montclair State University - School of Business

Tiffany Chiu

State University of New York at New Paltz

Alexander Kogan

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Date Written: May 13, 2025

Abstract

Auditors' going concern opinions (GCOs) are traditionally regarded as informative signals for investors assessing bankruptcy risk. Although this consensus has been supported by prior research, this study, using a comprehensive dataset from 2000 to 2024 and a variety of machine learning algorithms with extensive financial and market predictors, finds that GCOs provide little, if any, incremental predictive value in forecasting bankruptcies within one year. To ensure robustness, the analysis compares Big 4 and Non-Big 4 auditors, incorporates additional predictors, adjusts training-testing sample splits, and tests alternative misclassification cost ratios. Across all scenarios, results consistently show no meaningful improvement in prediction attributable to GCOs. These findings challenge the conventional view of GCO informativeness and highlight the need for more rigorous PCAOB inspections and enhanced auditor guidance to improve the decision usefulness of GCOs.

Keywords: Auditors' Going Concern Opinions, Bankruptcy Prediction, Machine Learning

Declaration of Interest

On behalf of all authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yunsen and Chiu, Tiffany and Kogan, Alexander, The Lack of Informativeness of Auditors' Going Concern Opinion in Predicting Bankruptcy: A Reexamination Using Machine Learning (May 13, 2025). This paper has been presented at AAA 2025 AIS and SET Joint Midyear Meeting and Rutgers AIS Seminar., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5259455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
D Ntounis , O Vlismas
Exploring the predictive ability of cost asymmetry on bankruptcy
The European Journal of Finance , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 553 - 593 Posted: 2025
F Pedregosa , G Varoquaux , A Gramfort , V Michel , B Thirion , O Grisel , M Blondel
Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python
Journal of Machine Learning Research , volume 12 , p. 2825 - 2830 Posted: 2011
Auditing Standard (AS) 2415: Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
Effective December , volume 15 Posted: 2017
F Provost
Machine learning from imbalanced data sets 101
Proceedings of the AAAI , volume 68 , p. 1 - 3 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
856,872
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies