Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Response to Client Corruption: Evidence from Google Document Frequency

Forthcoming. Journal of Business Finance and Accounting.

74 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 15 Jun 2025

Nerissa C. Brown

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Kecia Smith

North Carolina A&T State University

Henry Wang

Miami University - Farmer School of Business

Date Written: May 27, 2025

Abstract

The heated debate on auditors’ responsibility to detect client illegal activity and the related protracted standard-setting implementation underscore an urgent need to understand how auditors respond to client-specific noncompliance with laws and regulations (NOCLAR). Although prior research has examined auditors’ responses to noncompliance risks in the context of foreign bribery and political corruption, these studies’ insights are limited due to a focus on regional corruption proxies or clients with observable acts of foreign corruption. Our study introduces a Google document-frequency measure that captures both the actual and perceived prevalence of illegal acts by firms in each year. A key advantage of our time-varying, client-specific measure is that it provides a holistic proxy of illegality by capitalizing on widely disseminated textual information in decentralized internet databases. We first demonstrate that our Google-based corruption measure is a leading predictor of client noncompliance risks, offering incremental predictive power beyond regional corruption proxies. We then predict and find that auditors’ input and output behavior is associated with this novel measure. Specifically, in response to client corruption, auditors adjust their production inputs and charge higher audit fees. Related to audit output, we find that financial restatements and auditor decision errors are more prevalent for corrupt clients. This evidence suggests that, although auditors appropriately price for noncompliance risk, their execution of the audit does not fully adjust for the risk identified. 

Keywords: Auditors' Response to Client Corruption: Evidence from Google Document Frequency corporate corruption, noncompliance with laws and regulations, NOCLAR, audit fees, restatements, Google search metrics, illegal acts, audit regulation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Nerissa C. and Joe, Jennifer R. and Smith, Kecia and Wang, Henry, Auditors' Response to Client Corruption: Evidence from Google Document Frequency (May 27, 2025). Forthcoming. Journal of Business Finance and Accounting., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5271311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5271311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
S Aghazadeh , J Joe
Auditors' response to management confidence and client risk
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 101 , p. 348 - 362 Posted: 2022
The Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities: Report, Conclusions and Recommendations Posted: 1978
V B E Anand , M Ashforth , Joshi
Business as usual: The acceptance and perpetuation of corruption in organizations , volume 19 , p. 9 - 23 Posted: 2005
B E Ashforth , D A Gioia , S R Robinson , L K Trevino
Reviewing organizational corruption , volume 33 , p. 670 - 684 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
623,124
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies