Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The use of client-engaged specialists to support opportunistic estimates: Evidence from the insurance industry

67 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Matthew Ege

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Andy Imdieke

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Sarah B. Stuber

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

We utilize unique disclosures in the insurance industry to examine whether clientengaged specialists (i.e., external actuaries) affect opportunism within the claim loss reserve. Using a fixed-effects approach, we find that external actuaries have a significant effect on the opportunism in the claim loss reserve, approaching half the effect of the auditor. With respect to actuary characteristics, we find a positive (negative) association between actuary permissiveness (actuary size) and opportunism in the claim loss reserve. In additional analyses, we find that the relation between actuary permissiveness and claim loss reserve opportunism is stronger when insurers have incentives to opportunistically manage the claim loss reserve. This relation continues to persist in the presence of high-quality auditors. Overall, we provide evidence suggesting that client-engaged external actuaries can be used to support opportunistic claim loss reserve estimates.

Keywords: client-engaged specialists, complex estimates, opportunistic estimates, claim loss reserve, actuaries, permissiveness, auditing estimates JEL Codes: M41, M42

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ege, Matthew and Imdieke, Andrew and Stuber, Sarah, The use of client-engaged specialists to support opportunistic estimates: Evidence from the insurance industry (May 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
Code of professional conduct Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies