Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Stock Ownership, Investment Returns, and Audit Quality

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 25-79

54 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 2 Oct 2025

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

Jenni Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

Using a novel dataset of private stock portfolios from Swedish auditors, we provide initial empirical evidence on the extent of Big 4 auditors' ownership of individual stocks, their trading performance, and the quality of their audits. We find that individual stock ownership is widespread among Big 4 auditors, with over 50% holding shares in publicly listed Swedish companies, and that stock ownership varies with personal and professional characteristics. On average, Big 4 auditors generate positive market-adjusted returns on their investments, with some evidence of risk-adjusted outperformance, especially among audit partners and industry experts. However, Big 4 stock-owning auditors tend to issue more aggressive and less conservative audit reports and have a higher propensity for clients to meet or beat the zero earnings threshold. Collectively, our findings suggest that some Big 4 auditors can leverage their professional knowledge for private investment gains and that audit quality among these auditors may be compromised.

Keywords: Auditors, Audit quality, Stock ownership, Investment performance, M41, M42, G11

Suggested Citation:

Nilsson, Henrik and Kallunki, Jenni and Eugster, Florian and Vanstraelen, Ann, Auditor Stock Ownership, Investment Returns, and Audit Quality (May 28, 2025). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 25-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Kpmg
D M References Alldredge , D C Cicero
Attentive insider trading
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2015
E Amir , J P Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
RANK
819,727
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies