Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management Exploring Local Government Auditor Management Letter Practices: Linking Transparency and Accountability

1 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

Julia Davidyan

Nova Southeastern University - H. Wayne Huizenga School of Business & Entrepreneurship

Tammy Waymire

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 01, 2023

Abstract

In the public sector, a fundamental question persists: Does transparency lead to accountability? An agency theoretical perspective would suggest that the reduction of information asymmetry through disclosures by the agent (the government) to the public (the principal) leads to accountability, i.e., governments performing in the best interests of the citizenry. In this study, we explore the variation in U.S. states' requirements for disclosure of communications between the auditor and their local government clients, information which, following U.S. generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) would otherwise be confidential and therefore unavailable to citizens. We apply both the transparency dimensions of: (1) opaque, (2) passive, and (3) active, and the accountability dimensions of: (1) inward (2) upward/vertical, and (3) outward/horizontal accountability, and find that States vary significantly in their requirements for the disclosure of this information. Through qualitative methods, including interviews with stakeholders in the audit process, our study draws attention to this unique setting and more broadly the potential risks associated with reducing information asymmetry through required disclosures as a means of achieving accountability. Although the disclosure of this communication beyond its intended audience may have some merits (i.e., the public's right to know), failure to consider the plurality of citizens, their ability to consume this information, and the potential misuse of this information threaten the intended gains in accountability.

Keywords: Accountability Dimensions, Transparency Dimensions, Disclosure, Private Auditor Client Communications, Management Letters, Local Governments Audits

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Davidyan, Julia and Waymire, Tammy, Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management Exploring Local Government Auditor Management Letter Practices: Linking Transparency and Accountability (January 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5274887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5274887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
185
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies