Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Judgements on Issuing Going-Concern Opinion during Crisis Period: Evidence from Covid-19 Pandemic Period

30 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2025

Marahib Aldhuwayhi

Morgan State University; AL-Baha University

Huey-Lian Sun

Morgan State University

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the world in numerous ways, yet surprisingly, it coincided with a decrease in the number of going-concern opinions issued by auditors. This study aims to explore whether the unexpected decline in the number of going-concern opinions issued in 2020 is due to a change of auditors' judgements. Specifically, this study investigates whether there exists a change of auditors' judgements from traditional conservative to optimistic view during the COVID-19 period. Design/Methodology/Approach: Utilizing Altman's Z-score to assess bankruptcy risk, this study examines the likelihood of firms with high bankruptcy risk but without receiving goingconcern opinions, which might indicate an optimism in auditors' judgements. Furthermore, logistic regression is employed to analyze this relationship with various predictors. 

Findings: Results of the study provide evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic has indeed influenced auditors' judgments, potentially contributing to auditor optimistic judgements in assessing firms' bankruptcy risk in 2020, when the pandemic started in the United Sates. Findings of this study also show that the optimism diminishes in 2021 and 2022 when the pandemic was under control and its impact decreased. 
Originality: The study is the first to examine the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on auditors' judgments. It enriches the auditing literature by providing empirical evidence on the presence of optimism among auditors during the unprecedented global crisis of Covid-19.

Keywords: Going-Concern Opinion, COVID-19 Pandemic, Optimism

Suggested Citation:

Aldhuwayhi, Marahib and Sun, Huey-Lian, Auditors' Judgements on Issuing Going-Concern Opinion during Crisis Period: Evidence from Covid-19 Pandemic Period (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies