Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditors' Systemic Thinking on Professional Judgment

Proceedings of the MACONF Conference, Middle East Accounting Conference 2020, Civilica, Paper Code: maconf-04480496

21 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

Mohammadarian Ghahremanizahraie

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 11, 2020

Abstract

Professional judgment is one of the fundamental and essential elements of the auditing profession. Auditors must consistently use professional judgment regarding the proper and appropriate application of accounting standards by financial report preparers, compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and the efficiency and effectiveness of the audited operations. Existing theoretical foundations and conducted research indicate that various factors influence auditors' professional judgment. In this context, the present study examines the impact of employing systemic (holistic) thinking on auditors' professional judgment. The research is applied in terms of purpose and descriptive-correlational in methodology and implementation, categorized under survey-based studies. The required data were collected using questionnaires on systemic thinking and professional judgment, developed based on theoretical foundations and prior studies. The statistical population of this research includes all auditing firms and professional experts, from which a random sample of 160 individuals was selected based on Krejcie, Morgan, and Cohen's (1970) table. These individuals received the designed questionnaires. After confirming the reliability and validity of the questionnaires and research variables, Spearman's correlation coefficient and ordinary least squares regression were employed to analyze the relationship between the variables. The results indicate a positive and significant relationship between systemic thinking and auditors' professional judgment. Based on the study's findings, there is also a positive and significant relationship between systemic thinking and all professional judgment indicators, including professional behavior, ethical commitment, professional performance, independence, integrity, and professional skepticism. Relevant recommendations have been provided accordingly.

Keywords: Systemic Thinking, Professional Judgment, Auditor Independence, Professional Skepticism, Independent Audit

Suggested Citation:

Ghahremanizahraie, Mohammadarian, The Effect of Auditors' Systemic Thinking on Professional Judgment (February 11, 2020).
Proceedings of the MACONF Conference, Middle East Accounting Conference 2020, Civilica, Paper Code: maconf-04480496
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5315484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5315484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Hamidreza Baradaran , Sherka
Systemic Planning or Systems Thinking. Deputy of Economic Research, Research Group of Planning and Budgeting Posted: 2007
Mehdi ; Baharmoghadam , Pourheidari , ; Omid , Zahra Fathi , Fathi
Investigating the Effect of Philosophical Mindset Dimensions on Auditors' Professional Judgment
Journal of Auditing Knowledge , issue 72 Posted: 2018
Mehdi Tajoddin , Esmaeil Eghbali
Systems Thinking with an Entrepreneurial Approach. 3rd International Conference on Systems Management Posted: 2012
Farzad Heydarian
Investigating the Effect of Auditing Ethical Principles on Auditors' Professional Judgment. 1st International Conference on Accounting, Auditing, Management and Economics Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
255
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies