Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Classifying and Evaluating Large Language Models in External Audits

46 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2025

Fotoh Elad

Karlstad University Business School, Student

Tatenda Mugwira

University of Agder - University of Agder, School of Busines and Law, Students

Abstract

The study aims to define and develop a taxonomy that categorises LLMs into internal, semi-internal, and external LLMs, and to explore the potential of internal and semi-internal LLMs over external LLMs. A scoping literature review and survey was conducted to realise this objective. The findings reveal that these models are likely to offer enhanced benefits across the entire audit process and may help address —though not entirely eliminate—several challenges associated with external LLMs, such as confidentiality, security, client data privacy, reliability of information sources, hallucinations, inaccuracies, and data misinterpretation, while also enhancing quicker updates of new information, accountability and transparency. However, there are challenges that are likely to persist even when audit firms transition from external to internal and semi-internal LLMs, including the lack of ethical reasoning, risks of data breaches and cyber-attacks, the echo chamber effect, poor prompt quality, and anthropomorphism. From a Technology Acceptance Model, the benefits of internal and semi-internal LLMs may enhance their perceived usefulness and ease of use. Conversely, perceived challenges may diminish these perceptions, potentially slowing adoption. This study provides researchers with a structured foundation for categorising LLMs. It also supports audit firms make informed, responsible decisions on integrating LLMs into audits.

Keywords: Large Language Models, internal LLMs, semi-internal LLMs, external LLMs, external audits

Suggested Citation:

Elad, Fotoh and Mugwira, Tatenda, Classifying and Evaluating Large Language Models in External Audits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5325170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5325170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Aicpa References
Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 1993
AU Section 200: Overall objectives of the independent auditor and the conduct of an audit in accordance with international standards on auditing Posted: 2012
H Arksey , L O'malley
Scoping studies: towards a methodological framework
International journal of social research methodology , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 32 Posted: 2005
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
RANK
719,188
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies