Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Motivation Traits and Incentives Interact to Influence Auditor Professional Skepticism

Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2025 Last revised: 7 Aug 2025

John Chi Wa Ko

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

We conduct two experiments to examine how reward incentives and auditors' motivation traits interact to influence skepticism when auditing complex estimates. In Experiment 1, we predict and find that rewarding auditors increases skepticism, but only for extrinsically motivated auditors. In contrast, auditors with higher intrinsic motivation are not influenced by rewards. In Experiment 2, we predict and find that rewarding auditors with tangible rather than intangible rewards increases skepticism, but only for extrinsically motivated auditors. For auditors with higher intrinsic motivation, the type of reward does not significantly affect their level of skepticism. Our findings underscore the importance of considering auditors' motivation traits when evaluating the effectiveness of reward incentives designed to promote skepticism.

Keywords: intrinsic motivation, extrinsic motivation, incentives, rewards, professional skepticism

Suggested Citation:

Ko, John Chi Wa and Phang, Soon-Yeow, How Motivation Traits and Incentives Interact to Influence Auditor Professional Skepticism (July 01, 2025). Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5332616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5332616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
T M Amabile
Motivational synergy: Toward new conceptualizations of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation in the workplace
Human Resource Management Review , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 185 - 201 Posted: 1993
T M Amabile , K G Hill , B A Hennessey , E M Tighe
The work preference inventory: Assessing intrinsic and extrinsic motivational orientations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 66 , issue 5 , p. 950 - 967 Posted: 1994
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
D Barr-Pulliam , J Brazel , J Mccallen , K Walker
Data analytics and skeptical actions: The countervailing effects of false positives and consistent rewards for skepticism Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
RANK
792,195
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies