Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit, Loan Losses, and Financial Performance in Microfinance Institutions-a Global Evidence

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 3, 2025

33 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2025

Biodun O

Massey University

Dimu Ehalaiye

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Ernest Gyapong

Alfaisal University

Nives Botica Redmayne

Massey University

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-Microfinance institutions (MFIs) are recognised as a niche market where microloans and other financial services are provided to the poor, especially in developing economies. This study examines the relationship between the presence of the Internal Audit (IA) function, loan losses, and financial performance in MFIs. 

Design/methodology/approach-Employed fixed-effects regression models to estimate the required coefficients based on an unbalanced sample panel dataset of 1,226 MFI-year observations from 1,029 MFIs across 63 countries. 

Findings-The research found that the presence of IA in MFIs is associated with a reduction in loan losses in MFIs, showing the potential of the IA function for improving governance and risk management in MFIs. Similarly, the presence of IA is related to improved financial performance of MFIs through its significant positive effect on institutional operational self-sufficiency. However, the findings suggest that the negative relationship between loan losses and financial performance is not significantly higher in MFIs without IA, than in those with IA, indicating that although IA reduces the risk of loan loss occurrence and improves profitability in MFIs, it cannot solitarily eliminate the adverse impact of loan losses on MFI financial performance. 

Originality/value-Although arguments have been made for IA in MFIs, this is the first study to empirically examine the impact of IA on risky MFI loans measured by loan loss rate and impairment losses on loans. This study responds to stakeholders' calls for MFIs to set up better internal governance mechanisms and risk controls aimed at enhancing their viability. The study further shows that IA may not be the universal solution for reducing the impact of credit risk and loan loss problems on MFI financial performance, especially if other risk management and internal governance controls are poorly implemented.

Keywords: Microfinance, Internal audit, Loan losses, Financial performance, Risk

Suggested Citation:

O, Biodun and Ehalaiye, Dimu and Gyapong, Ernest and Botica Redmayne, Nives, Internal Audit, Loan Losses, and Financial Performance in Microfinance Institutions-a Global Evidence (July 01, 2025). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 3, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5335373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
915,095
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies