Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Auditor Legal Liability and Collaborative Networks: Evidence from Mandatory Changes to Limited Liability Partnerships in China

65 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2025 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Zihui Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Keyuan Zhang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Drawing on 2.48 million audit reports covering public and private clients in China, we study how a mandate that changes audit firms from limited liability companies to limited liability partnerships (LLPs) impacts auditors' collaborative networks. LLPs impose unlimited legal liability on individuals responsible for audit failures. We find that following changes to LLPs, individual auditors systematically avoid co-signing with colleagues whose earlier audits exhibited low quality, hence reducing these "risky" auditors' network centrality. This effect is mitigated when audit firms have incentives to protect partnership interests and enhance mutual monitoring of risky auditors. While risky auditors attempt to improve audit quality after LLP changes, their declined networks interfere with this. Similarly, junior auditors, whose ability is harder to gauge, experience a network shrinkage and subsequent audit quality declines. Our results suggest an unintended effect of LLPs on the personnel development inside audit firms.

JEL Classification: K2, M42, L22

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Li, Zihui and Zhang, Keyuan and Zhang, Min, Individual Auditor Legal Liability and Collaborative Networks: Evidence from Mandatory Changes to Limited Liability Partnerships in China (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5342192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5342192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia , X Liu , K Na , H Wu
Client restatement announcement, audit office human capital investment, and audit quality improvements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
367
RANK
677,757
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies