Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditors’ Informal Communication on Manager Behavior

49 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Emily (Hornok) Deng

Baylor University - Department of Accounting & Business Law

Date Written: October 10, 2025

Abstract

Auditors informally communicate with both client managers and fellow audit team members throughout an audit. I examine the separate effects of these informal communications on managers’ strategic behavior using a laboratory experiment in which participants in the roles of auditors and managers interact in a stylized audit setting. I find that informal auditor-manager communication strengthens managers’ social bonds with auditors, which results in fewer aggressive accounting choices by the manager. Moreover, these stronger social bonds result in greater honesty about aggressive accounting choices when they do occur. While informal communication causes auditors to choose lower audit effort, I show that because of the managers’ social bond and its positive influence on the managers’ behavior, the auditors’ effort choice is appropriate, ultimately resulting in fewer instances of audit failure and greater instances of efficient audit outcomes. My study demonstrates that auditors can use their informal communication with managers as a strategic tool to build social bonds with the client, ultimately providing benefits to the audit through preferable manager behaviors. 

Keywords: Auditor-Manager Relationship, Management Representations, Informal Communication, Social Bonds, Social Identity Theory, Experimental Economics

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Emily, The Effect of Auditors’ Informal Communication on Manager Behavior (October 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5344114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5344114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
P Battigalli , G Charness , M Dufwenberg
Deception: The role of guilt
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 93 , p. 227 - 232 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
125
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies