Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure and the Timeliness of Earnings Announcements and Audit Reports

forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

47 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2025 Last revised: 5 Aug 2025

Dina El Mahdy, Ph.D., CFE

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Eunju (Ivy) Lee

Rowan University - Rohrer College of Business

Christina Synn

American University

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Date Written: July 04, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the relation between the extent of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure and the timeliness of earnings announcements and audit reports. Consistent with ESG disclosure providing timelier financial information, we find that firms that disclose more ESG metrics announce earnings in a timelier manner and experience shorter audit delays. We also find the relation between greater ESG disclosure and audit timeliness is stronger after Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards implementation, as well as for firms in industries with more SASB ESG disclosure items that are material to the income statement. Finally, firms with greater ESG disclosure are more likely to provide early warnings of ineffective internal controls, as well as issue management earnings forecasts. Overall, our results suggest that by enhancing the internal information environment, reporting systems installed to provide more information on ESG metrics can have potential spillover effects for corporate financial reporting and auditing.

Keywords: ESG Disclosure, Sustainability, Voluntary Disclosure, Earnings Announcements, Audit Delay

Suggested Citation:

El Mahdy, Dina and Lee, Ivy and Synn, Christina and Zhang, Yinqi, ESG Disclosure and the Timeliness of Earnings Announcements and Audit Reports (July 04, 2025). forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5348385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5348385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
J Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit reporting lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 221 Posted: 2019
M Ashraf , P N Michas , D Russomanno
The impact of audit committee information technology expertise on the reliability and timeliness of financial reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 56 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
RANK
572,233
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies