Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Software Adoption Through the Lens of Directed Technological Change

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7329-25

62 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 13 Sep 2025

David S. Kim

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Felix Vetter

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

Business software and associated technological tools are becoming ubiquitous, but we have little evidence on why firms voluntarily adopt them. To address this, we study how business software adoption by private firms responds to labor market conditions. We first show that adoption is increasing in business and financial operations worker wages and decreasing in the number of these workers in a given market. We confirm this finding in a Bartik-style estimation that studies accounting software adoption and exploits the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and differences in states' pre-Act exposure to public company accounting labor markets. Software adoption frees up accountants to focus on operational and strategic tasks, and enables the implementation of management accounting practices such as inventory management and demand planning. Adoption also reduces the seasonality of accounting labor demand. Our results illustrate how labor market scarcity can induce technology adoption, consistent with models of directed technological change.

Keywords: technological change, accounting, management practices, private firms, business software, software, labor

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G30, G31, L51, O33, J23

Suggested Citation:

Kim, David S. and Sutherland, Andrew and Vetter, Felix, Business Software Adoption Through the Lens of Directed Technological Change (July 28, 2025). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7329-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5369069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5369069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Acemoglu
Directed technical change
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , issue 4 , p. 781 - 809 Posted: 2002
D Acemoglu
When does labor scarcity encourage innovation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , issue 6 , p. 1037 - 1078 Posted: 2010
D Acemoglu , D Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings. Handbook of Labor Economics Posted: 2011
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
401,129
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies