Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Implicit Government Guarantees on Auditor Choice: Evidence from Chinese SOE Defaults

67 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Donghui Li

Shenzhen University

Xinwu Li

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Jian Sun

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Baiqiang Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Rui Xu

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 30, 2025

Abstract

This study exploits the first bond default event of Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to examine whether and how the decline in implicit government guarantee (IGG) affects firms’ auditor choices. Our results show that the decline in IGG following an SOE’s bond default leads to a higher tendency for SOEs to engage Big 10 or industry expert auditors. Mechanism tests indicate that SOEs facing greater financial constraints have a higher incentive to engage a higher-quality auditor. Our cross-sectional analyses suggest that the main results are more pronounced when SOEs are bond-issuing firms, when they are in regions with lower bank competition, and when they are more important clients to original auditors. Among high-quality auditors, SOEs tend to hire domestic audit firms. At the same time, both central SOEs and local SOEs demonstrate a demand for high-quality auditors following a decline in the IGG, and SOEs located in regions with stronger government fiscal support are more likely to engage high-quality auditors. Moreover, following the decline in IGG, SOEs that hire high-quality auditors can secure stronger bond financing capacity.

Keywords: Implicit Government Guarantee, Auditor Choice, State-Owned Enterprises, Bond Default

Suggested Citation:

Li, Donghui and Li, Xinwu and Sun, Jian and Wang, Baiqiang and Xu, Rui, Impact of Implicit Government Guarantees on Auditor Choice: Evidence from Chinese SOE Defaults (July 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
V Acharya , D Anginer , J Warburton
The End of Market Discipline? Investor Expectations of Implicit Government Guarantees Posted: 2016
C E Bai , C T Hsieh , Z M Song
The Long Shadow of a Fiscal Expansion Posted: 2016
M Bradshaw , G Liao , M S Ma
Agency Costs and Tax Planning When the Government Is a Major Shareholder
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2019
A Beatty , S Chamberlain , J Magliolo
An Empirical Analysis of the Economic Implications of Fair Value Accounting for Investment Securities
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 43 - 77 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
100
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies