Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Spotlight and Auditor Distraction: The Hidden Costs of Negative Exposure

51 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2025

Mert Erinc

BI Norwegian Business School

Stavriana Hadjigavriel

CUNEF Universidad

Date Written: August 11, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether negative media exposure faced by an audit client triggers adverse spillover effects on the audit quality of other clients sharing the same auditor due to resource reallocation. Using a sample of fraud-related events in the US, we examine how audit quality fluctuates within exposed audit offices (i.e., those with a client under negative media scrutiny) at different levels of exposure. We find that when the accusation date of a targeted client overlaps with the audit period of another client, the latter experiences a significant decline in audit quality, evidenced by increased restatements, missed material weaknesses, and filing delays. Employing a robust empirical identification strategy, we isolate the impact of media coverage, and demonstrate that these spillover effects arise from media-driven scrutiny rather than office-specific incompetence or the fraud events themselves. These findings hold across multiple robustness checks, underscoring the broader implications of media attention for audit resource allocation and overall audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Media Exposure, Auditor Distraction, Spillover Effects

Suggested Citation:

Erinc, Mert and Hadjigavriel, Stavriana, Media Spotlight and Auditor Distraction: The Hidden Costs of Negative Exposure (August 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5388528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5388528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Afzali , M Afzali , K Ittonen
Distracted auditors, audit effort, and earnings quality
Accounting Forum , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2024
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
M L Barnett , A A King
Good fences make good neighbors: A longitudinal analysis of an industry self-regulatory institution
Academy of Management Journal , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1150 - 1170 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
145
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies