Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Career Variety: Exploring the Effect of "Experience Portfolios" in Expertise Development

52 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2025 Last revised: 25 Aug 2025

Eriko Kameoka

Tohoku University; Tohoku University - Economics & Management

Date Written: August 17, 2025

Abstract

Despite its significance, there is limited knowledge about the development of auditor expertise throughout a professional career. To address this gap, this study examined how diverse career experiences contribute to the formation of auditing expertise. Drawing on career theories, it introduced the concept of an "experience portfolio"-the cumulative set of heterogeneous job experiences acquired through career transitions. Using a novel survey of 485 audit partners from the Japanese Big 4 firms, this analysis isolates experience-based effects by leveraging Japan's highly selective and demographically homogeneous audit labor market. The results show that while frequent transitions are associated with delayed promotion, certain types of experiences contribute distinct benefits. For example, a global audit experience is associated with more complex client assignments, whereas non-audit roles such as IPO advisory services and regulatory inspections support the management of larger client portfolios. These findings reconceptualize auditor expertise as the outcome of varied nonlinear career paths, challenging traditional metrics such as tenure or specialization. This study introduces a typology of experience, offering theoretical insights into expertise development and practical implications for human capital management and regulatory policies.

Keywords: Auditor Expertise, Career Transitions, Experience Portfolios, Human Capital Management, Nonlinear Career Paths

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no conflict of interest. The data collection was supported by “Access to CPA” project led by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA), but the analysis and interpretations are solely the responsibility of the author.

Ethics Approval

The survey received ethics approval from Tohoku University Research Ethics Review Board.

Funder Statement

This research was financially supported by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science KAKENHI (Grant Numbers 18K12896, 21K13395, and 24K05172), as well as by research grants from the Institute of Internal Auditors, Japan, and the Nomura Foundation.

JEL Classification: M42, J24, O15

Suggested Citation:

Kameoka, Eriko, Auditors' Career Variety: Exploring the Effect of "Experience Portfolios" in Expertise Development (August 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5395100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Aicpa References
The data-driven audit: How automation and AI are changing the audit and the role of the auditor
Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2020
M B Arthur
The boundaryless career: A new perspective for organizational inquiry
Journal of Organizational Behavior , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 295 - 306 Posted: 1994
R H Ashton , S S Kramer
Students as surrogates in behavioral accounting research: Some evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1980
Bdo
Secondment/International Spotlight Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
170
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies