Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Audit Scapegoating Tale by the Media: Full of Sound and Fury But Amounting to Nothing

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

30 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2025

Warren Maroun

University of the Witwatersrand

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Dannielle Cerbone

University of the Witwatersrand

Wayne Van Zijl

University of the Witwatersrand

Abstract

This paper draws on René Girard’s theory of scapegoating to explore how the audit profession maintains legitimacy thanks to ritualised blame and symbolic punishment, focusing on six years of UK media coverage following the 2018 collapse of Carillion Plc. Using a longitudinal content analysis of 352 newspaper articles, we show how KPMG, as Carillion’s auditor, was progressively constructed as the primary scapegoat, subjected to a public spectacle of accusation and sanction and ultimately “rehabilitated”. Simultaneously, the audit regulator (the FRC) emerged as a secondary scapegoat, which is held to account for its shortcomings. Doing so allows for the regulator to be both punished and reestablished with authority required to participate in the punishment of KPMG and the broader profession. The findings extend prior work on legitimacy, regulation and professional accountability by showing that public trust in auditors is paradoxically sustained not despite, but by, crises. We argue that legitimacy is not solely managed through technical compliance or regulatory reform but also through mimetic processes that rely on media narratives, performative punishment and the ritualised reaffirmation of professional norms. The study challenges deterministic views of regulation by underscoring the mutual dependency between auditors and their regulator in a cyclical process of societal rebalancing that preserves the status quo.

Keywords: audit failures, rituals, scapegoating, violence

Suggested Citation:

Maroun, Warren and Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Cerbone, Dannielle and Van Zijl, Wayne, An Audit Scapegoating Tale by the Media: Full of Sound and Fury But Amounting to Nothing. Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5396354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5396354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C A Barry , N Britten , N Barber , C Bradley , F Stevenson
Using reflexivity to optimize teamwork in qualitative research
Qualitative health research , volume 9 , p. 26 - 44 Posted: 1999
J Black
Forms and Paradoxes of Principles-Based Regulation
Capital Markets Law Journal , volume 3 , p. 425 - 457 Posted: 2008
R Chandler , R Edwards , M Anderson
Changing Perceptions of the Role of the Company Auditor, 1840-1940
Accounting and Business Research , volume 23 , p. 443 - 459 Posted: 1993
D J Cooper , K Robson
Accounting, professions and regulation: Locating the sites of professionalization
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , p. 415 - 444 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies