Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Identification with ESG on Professional Skepticism in ESG Audits

43 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2025

Bart Dierynck

Tilburg University

Lobke Weijers

Tilburg University

Date Written: August 21, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether identification with Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics affects professional skepticism in ESG audits. We predict that auditors’ professional skepticism in ESG audits is increasing in their identification with ESG. Using an experiment featuring an ESG audit, we find that participants revealing strong identification with ESG display a higher level of professional skepticism than participants revealing weak identification with ESG. This is important because ESG auditing is an area that is in its infancy and understanding the factors that cause variation in the delivered quality will help ESG auditing to become more mature. Inspired by a proposal of policymakers, we also examine whether making auditors aware of the aforementioned effect and making auditors aware of more general differences in professional skepticism mitigates the aforementioned effect. We find modest evidence that making participants aware of the effect of identification with ESG mitigates the effect. However, this is driven by participants with strong identification with ESG decreasing their professional skepticism.

Keywords: Professional Skepticism, Audit, ESG, ESG Audit, CSR

Ethics Approval

This study is approved by the TiSEM Institutional Review Board.

Suggested Citation:

Dierynck, Bart and Weijers, Lobke, The Effect of Identification with ESG on Professional Skepticism in ESG Audits (August 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5399875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5399875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies