Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The spill-over effects of listed companies’ mandatory auditor rotation rule on group subsidiaries

67 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2025

Elena Cantù

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milano

Maria Elena Olante

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Angela Pettinicchio

Catholic University of Milan

Alessandra Scimeca

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The aim of this study is to analyze the impact of mandatory audit firm rotations (MAFR) at the parent (listed) company level on group subsidiaries. While prior literature on MAFR has only examined the effects of mandatory rotations on listed parent companies, little attention has been paid to the potential spill-over effects that such a rule might have at the group level, specifically on groups’ subsidiaries. Whenever the auditor of a parent listed company switches according to the mandatory rotation rule, repercussions on all the group subsidiaries may occur. The potential costs and benefits deriving from the rule might therefore extend beyond the consolidated financial statements of the group, and affect subsidiaries’ stand-alone financial reporting. This study is the first to provide empirical evidence on the actual effects of mandatory audit firm rotations on group subsidiaries, taking advantage of a unique research setting based in Italy, which has a long history of mandatory rotations. We find that concurrent switches – i.e. auditor changes at the subsidiary level which occur simultaneously with auditor changes at the parent company level - positively affect audit quality of subsidiaries. We also find that concurrent switches are associated with lower fees paid by the group’s subsidiaries. These effects seem stronger for national and larger subsidiaries and for subsidiaries whose auditor is not an industry specialist. Overall, the evidence of this study shows that imposing mandatory rotations at the listed parent company level has some positive externalities at the group subsidiaries level.

Keywords: mandatory audit firm rotations, subsidiaries, concurrent switches, non-concurrent switches, audit quality, audit fees.

Suggested Citation:

Cantù, Elena and Olante, Maria Elena and Pettinicchio, Angela and Scimeca, Alessandra, The spill-over effects of listed companies’ mandatory auditor rotation rule on group subsidiaries. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5420830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5420830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
J. Account. Econ , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
E M Bamber , L S Bamber
Discussion of mandatory audit partner rotation, audit quality, and market perception: Evidence from Taiwan
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 402 Posted: 2009
M E Barth , D P Cram , K K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
Account. Rev , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
C M Becker , L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
80
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies