Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Litigation Risk on Expanded Audit Reports: Canadian Evidence 

50 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Leting Liu

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the influence of institutional differences across countries on CAM/KAM reporting. To conduct this analysis, we compare the expanded audit reports of Canadian domestic companies (KAM) with those of Canadian companies cross-listed in the U.S. (CAM). The key distinction lies in the fact that cross-listing in the U.S. significantly heightens auditors' litigation risk. We hypothesize and find that Canadian companies cross-listed in the US disclose more information relating to significant audit matters than domestic Canadian companies. Additionally, we find that the association between company-level litigation risk and the number and length of audit matters is statistically significant only for CAM companies. Furthermore, we explore whether there are information value differences between KAMs and CAMs. Our results indicate that CAMs are more value relevant than KAMs. This paper represents the first empirical demonstration of the association between a company's litigation environment and its C(K)AM reporting, offering Canadian-specific evidence on audit matter disclosures.

Keywords: expanded audit report, C(K)AM, Canadian domestic vs. cross-listed companies, litigation risk, cross-listed companies, value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Leting and Ye, Minlei, The Impact of Litigation Risk on Expanded Audit Reports: Canadian Evidence  (August 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5482127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5482127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
101
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies