Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Experimental and Archival Research in Auditing: Complementarities, Convergence, and Future Directions

The Accounting Review, 2025[10.2308/TAR-2025-0477]

19 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2025

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

This commentary considers experimental and archival auditing research published over the past 50 years and suggests directions for future research. Starting with Ashton (1974a) and Simunic (1980), I discuss major research themes occurring in these literatures. I use Brunswik's lens model as a metaphor that highlights methodological complementarities and opportunities for convergence to address important issues. Possible topics to consider further in future research include the determinants of audit quality, the structure of audit firms and audit regulation, the effect of emerging technologies like AI, teaching and supporting future auditors, potential enhancements of the audit report, and expansion of the services that auditors provide to society.

Keywords: auditing, archival research, experimental research, lens model, audit quality, audit judgment, AI

JEL Classification: M42, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Mark W., Experimental and Archival Research in Auditing: Complementarities, Convergence, and Future Directions (September 04, 2025). The Accounting Review, 2025[10.2308/TAR-2025-0477], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5484046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
234
RANK
269,867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies