Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Expectations-Reality Gap in Auditing: A Comparison of Student Expectations and Auditor Experiences

37 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2025 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Bart Dierynck

Tilburg University

Claudia Marangoni

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Lobke Weijers

Tilburg University

Date Written: October 14, 2025

Abstract

To investigate whether student expectations match with early-career realities at Big 4 and mid-sized audit firms, we analyze survey responses from 344 Dutch business and accounting students and 161 junior auditors. The findings reveal that students consistently misjudge key aspects of the junior auditor role: they underestimate attractive features—such as intellectual challenge, client interaction, and autonomy—and overestimate less appealing features, including repetitiveness and overtime. These misperceptions are particularly pronounced for Big 4 audit firms. Moreover, a larger expectations-reality gap for job content and organizational culture significantly decreases students’ likelihood of pursuing an audit career. Our results highlight the need to improve the accuracy of student expectations to help address the audit talent shortage. Yet, our analyses show that conventional outreach methods, with the exception of in-house days, have limited impact, suggesting a need for alternative approaches to better align student expectations with the realities of audit work.

Keywords: Expectations-Reality Gap, Auditor Shortage, Job Expectations, Job Experiences, Career Intentions

Ethics Approval

The study received approval from the Institutional Review Board.

Funder Statement

We thank the Foundation for Auditing Research for providing us with funding and support of our project 2023B04. The views in the paper are our own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Foundation for Auditing Research.

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dierynck, Bart and Marangoni, Claudia and Peters, Christian P. H. and Weijers, Lobke, The Expectations-Reality Gap in Auditing: A Comparison of Student Expectations and Auditor Experiences (October 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5503958 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5503958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
S Durocher , M Bujaki , F Brouard
Attracting Millennials: Legitimacy management and bottom-up socialization processes within accounting firms
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 39 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2016
Accountants work to shed 'boring' tag amid hiring crisis
Financial Times Posted: 2022-10-03
Shortage of accountants affecting many big companies
Financial Times Posted: 2024-03-20
S D Gosling , P J Rentfrow , W B Swann
A very brief measure of the Big-Five personality domains
Journal of Research in Personality , volume 37 , issue 6 , p. 504 - 528 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
124
RANK
682,707
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies