Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of KAMs Disclosure in the Extended Audit Report on Managerial Bad News Hoarding Behavior and Stock Price Crash Risk: The Role of Audit Firm Characteristics

23 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Reem Essam Mohamed Bedeir

Graceland University; Cairo University

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to develop an understanding of the role of the extended audit report in mitigating managerial opportunistic behavior. Hence, this study examines the significance of Key Audit Matters (KAMs) disclosure in the rise of managerial bad news hoarding behavior, by decreasing the likelihood of stock price crashes. It also investigates the role of different aspects of audit firm characteristics in promoting the role of KMAs disclosure. This is achieved through examining the role of audit firm size, auditor industry specialization and audit tenure. The inferences are based on FTSE-193 firms with a total of 559 firm-year observations. The results reveal that the Big4 and industry-specialized audit firms, which disclose about KAMs in the previous year, have a negative impact on managerial bad news hoarding behavior, by decreasing the likelihood of stock price crash risk in the current year. Additionally, the findings suggest that KAMs disclosure is potentially compromised when an auditor has long audit tenure. These results are robust to additional controls and alternative measures. Overall, these results highlight the need for examining the information processing effect of KAMs disclosure and its role in controlling managerial opportunistic behavior.

Keywords: Extended Audit Report, Key Audit Matters, Expectation Gap, Hoarding Bad News, Stock Price Crash, Big4, Industry Specialization, Audit Tenure

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed Bedeir, Reem Essam and Mohamed Bedeir, Reem Essam, The Effect of KAMs Disclosure in the Extended Audit Report on Managerial Bad News Hoarding Behavior and Stock Price Crash Risk: The Role of Audit Firm Characteristics (March 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5531139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5531139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies