Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the PCAOB effective? Insights from Interviews

80 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Trevor S. Harris

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Ranjani Krishnan

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: September 19, 2025

Abstract

We conduct in-depth interviews with 24 senior executives (audit partners, CFOs, controllers, analysts, investors, audit committee members and regulators) to understand the role of audited financial statements and the PCAOB's contribution to that role. Interviewees indicated that audits continue to be essential to the trustworthiness and credibility of US capital markets. Most support the formation of the PCAOB and its continued existence and opined that auditor self-regulation does not work. However, many suggest that the PCAOB's standard setting function should be separated from the inspection and enforcement roles, and that the former role could be delegated to the IAASB although investor advocates worry that the audit industry funds the IAASB. Several interviewees opined that the inspections process should evolve to rely more on technology and avoid ticking and tying type checks. Most do not support folding the PCAOB into the SEC, arguing that the SEC is inherently political, lacks auditing expertise, and has underpaid and overburdened staff that serve at the whim of elected officials. Interviewees provide several suggestions on how the PCAOB, and the audit process can be reformed to make them more useful to investors and capital markets. Our paper sheds additional light on the role of the PCAOB as perceived by a variety of users of audited financial statements.

Keywords: Interviews, Audit Quality, PCAOB, Audit Standards, Enforcement, Inspection, SEC, Independence

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Trevor S. and Krishnan, Ranjani and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Is the PCAOB effective? Insights from Interviews (September 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5545359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5545359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies