Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inter-Office Social Connectedness and Audit Quality

53 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Wenyin Li

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 06, 2025

Abstract

Social capital theory suggests that social connectedness reduces communication barriers and promotes knowledge sharing. This study examines the association between audit firm inter-office social connectedness and audit quality. We leverage data from Facebook on friendship linkages between geographic areas to construct a measure of inter-office social connectedness within audit firms. After controlling for geographic proximity, we find that greater inter-office social connectedness is negatively associated with the likelihood of misstatements, suggesting that social ties support cross-office knowledge sharing that enhances audit quality. Moreover, we document incremental benefits of inter-office social connectedness when there are more connections to offices with greater expertise and in cases when an office’s audit engagements likely demand greater auditor judgement and knowledge coordination. We also use a complementary measure using LinkedIn connections among auditors and find consistent results. Overall, our findings highlight the critical role of inter-office social connectedness extending beyond geographical proximity in facilitating knowledge sharing and improving audit quality.

Keywords: Auditor Social Connectedness, Audit Quality, Inter-Office Connections, Knowledge Sharing

JEL Classification: M42, M40

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Causholli, Monika and Li, Wenyin, Inter-Office Social Connectedness and Audit Quality (October 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5572458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5572458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
76
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Interorganizational Networks & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies