Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Choices in Status-Conscious Societies: Consumerist Culture and the Demand for Prestige and Reputation

Posted: 17 Oct 2025

Mehdi Khodakarami

Monash University

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Dulani Jayasuriya

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: October 11, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the association between local consumerist culture and client firms’ demand for prestigious audit services. Drawing on social norm and signaling theories, we argue that companies embedded in consumerist environments are more likely to engage high-status auditors as a means of enhancing legitimacy and organizational standing. Using a comprehensive U.S. sample of 40,709 firm-year observations, we construct a novel state-level proxy for consumerist culture based on residualized personal consumption expenditures, isolating cultural variation beyond macroeconomic fundamentals. We find that client firms headquartered in states with higher levels of consumerist culture are significantly more likely to hire Big 4 auditors. This positive association weakens in highly religious regions, where norms of modesty and frugality may counteract status signaling, but strengthens among firms with high advertising expenditures, where image management and visibility are central to their strategy. Additional analyses show that firms in consumerist environments also favor industry specialist auditors and pay higher audit and non-audit services fees, reinforcing the interpretation that they are willing to invest in both substantive assurance and symbolic prestige. Collectively, the findings demonstrate that cultural norms rooted in status-seeking consumption significantly and subconsciously shape companies’ governance choices, expanding the theoretical understanding of audit demand beyond economic determinants to include socio-cultural drivers. The results also have practical implications for regulators and for audit firms’ marketing and client engagement strategies.

Suggested Citation:

Khodakarami, Mehdi and Hay, David and Jayasuriya, Dulani, Audit Choices in Status-Conscious Societies: Consumerist Culture and the Demand for Prestige and Reputation (October 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5590930
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
42
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies