Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Audit Quality and Abnormal Audit Fees

57 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2005

Jong-Hag Choi

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2006

Abstract

Using a sample of 9,820 firm-year observations over the 2000-2003 period, this paper examines whether, and how, audit quality proxied by unsigned discretionary accruals is associated with the abnormal audit fee, i.e., the difference between actual audit fee and auditors' expectation on the normal level of fee. The results of various regressions reveal that the association between the two is insignificant for the full sample, significantly positive for the subsample of clients with positive abnormal fees, and insignificantly negative for the subsample of clients with negative abnormal fees. The above results suggest that auditors' incentives to compromise audit quality differ systematically depending on whether the clients pay more than or less than the normal level of audit fees, which in turn leads to the audit fee-audit quality association being conditioned on the sign of abnormal audit fees. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity checks. Relevant implications of our results to policy makers and academic researchers are discussed.

Keywords: Audit quality, Audit and non-audit services, Abnormal audit fees, Earnings management

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M43, L84

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jong and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Zang, Yoonseok, The Association between Audit Quality and Abnormal Audit Fees (July 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=848067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.848067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
R Antle , E A Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou ; H , R Lafond , B Mayhew
The Joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees and abnormal accruals
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Becker , M Defond , J Jiambalvo , K Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P J Beck , T J Frecka , I Solomon
An empirical analysis of the relationship between MAS involvement and auditor tenure: Implications for auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 7 , p. 65 - 84 Posted: 1988
Load more
8 Citations
Sarowar Hossain
Effect of Regulatory Changes on Auditor Independence and Audit Quality
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 17, Issue 3, pp. 246-264, 2013 · 19 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ole-Kristian Hope , Tony Kang , Wayne B. Thomas , Yong Keun Yoo
Impact of Excess Auditor Remuneration on Cost of Equity Capital Around the World
47 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2008 · Downloads: 847
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jong Choi , Jeong-Bon Kim , Aini Qiu , Yoonseok Zang
Auditor Locality, Audit Quality and Audit Pricing
54 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2007 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 1,420
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammad Ziad Shakhatreh , Safaa Adnan Alsmadi , Ahmad Alkhataybeh , Collins G. Ntim
The effect of audit fees on disclosure quality in Jordan
Cogent Business & Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1771076 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,757
RANK
14,232
8 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies